

CIT 55510 NETWORK SECURITY 1

Home Network Security & Monitoring

Benjamin Rader
IUPUI
Purdue School of Engineering & Technology

✦

1 INTRODUCTION & LITERATURE OVERVIEW
M
 OST consumers and even advanced IT workers per-
ceive the home network as a less appetizing target
to the average attacker. This results in a lack of focus
on home network threats and vulnerabilities because the
money simply is not there. The dilemma of home network
security exists since most attacks are not reported with the
average home user not knowing the first thing about cyber
attacks, most home users do not have visibility into their
networks, and most home network attacks are simply not of
interest to the general public.

1.1 Recent Home Network Threats

Networking is one of the most complex parts of cybersecu-
rity. Most users do not know where to begin or even what
to search online to begin protecting their home networks
[8]. The Internet itself was designed to solve complex issues
with distributed computing and communication that relies
on a relatively narrow set of protocols. Most businesses have
a difficult time with information technology and network-
ing problems because of the complexities of various het-
erogenous systems having to operate in very unique ways.
On the contrary, most home networks do not necessitate
complex protocols, unique topologies, or expensive network
hardware to operate. Implementing security in different-
sized companies can reveal a dynamic that applies to home
networks. Anecdotes from the corporate environment sug-
gest that security is easiest to implement in the smallest and
largest businesses but hard to pull off in small to medium-
sized enterprises. This is explained by the fact that busi-
nesses like the Fortune 100 have refined security processes
and architectures which makes them more secure, and the
smallest businesses have networks that are small enough
so that coverage of weaknesses is straightforward with
simple approaches. Although small businesses may poten-
tially have good security on average, research conducted in
this paper suggests that home networks specifically have
unaddressed wide-reaching weaknesses. These weaknesses
and threats do not include other forms of human error like
the fact that the most common password is still ”12345” [16].
The real problem originates at the home and personal front.
Despite much work, research, and legislation for cyber-
security with businesses, more work needs to be done for
home networks which, on a practical level, operate like
small enterprises. When breaches occur at people’s com-
panies, most people are not motivated to make behavioral
 and personal security changes [10]. Findings in recent years
also show that individuals are just as harmed by these
cyberattacks as businesses that are affected. It is estimated
that 42% of the total losses experienced due to cyber attacks
on U.S. municipalities are losses on the individual [33]. In
other words, the average home user is surely being harmed
by cybercrime, and yet, there is a lack of pragmatic solutions
for home networks. ”There is no lack of technological means
and advice to ensure secure operation of systems, but it
is usually people with a technical background who define
these concepts only/mainly based on technical reasoning.
The actual users are rarely figured in, which increases the
probability that security measures are not practical. [5]”
Although there are not a lot of stats on actual attacks
against home networks, conducted pentests on home net-
work topologies show gold mines of vulnerabilities and
weaknesses [29]. There are other avenues of solutions that
would not focus on the user, but rather on home network
hardware manufacturers such as home routers. Technical
work at the manufacturer level could do the trick but supply
chain and business problems can be more difficult to solve
than securing a home network with third-party tools and
solutions. A lot of work would need to be done to change the
business and supply chain problems that surround creating
inherently secure home networks as they are deployed by
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) [19]. Yet, even the third-
party approach to securing a home network could use a
more holistic framework. A lot of the research is quite
segmented [2].

1.1.1 Internet of (Vulnerable) Things - IoT
The growth of Internet of Things (IoT) devices is perhaps
one of the most pivotal changes for home networks. By 2030,
the growth will have doubled from 2022 [35]. The risk of
not getting these various IoT products out into the market
is seen as larger than the risk of developing insecure IoT
devices. Furthermore, domestic network architectures do
not seem to be on a lot of the IoT device makers’ minds [29].
Consumers love the innovation and solutions that come out
of IoT, but they are not aware of the potential misuse or
weaknesses of such systems. California even made an IoT
law (California’s SB-327 IoT law) that prohibited password
defaults and other poor password security practices for
these devices. Some of the bad practices simply happen
because of operational misalignment where the product de-
velopment team is not interacting enough with the security

CIT 55510 NETWORK SECURITY 2

engineers. Gafgyt is an example of an IoT botnet that has
targeted 32,000 SOHO (Small office/home office) routers
which technically can qualify as IoT devices. This exploit
was used to do a DDoS (distributed denial of service) attack
on gaming servers [6]. These attacks tend to be specific
to the device, but they are simple to pull off with a bit
of tinkering or investigation with the IoT device firmware.
Most IoT devices are unencrypted - 98% of them in fact
and 57% of IoT devices have medium to high severity
vulnerabilities on them. That does not include all of the
likely unknown vulnerabilities. Most of the attacks that have
been observed occur on security cameras and printers. How-
ever, research on IoT in the healthcare industry shows that
most hospitals or healthcare organizations do not handle
IoT security seriously. One of HIPAA’s (Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act) defining requirements is
that certain networks are segmented which can be done with
VLANs (virtual local area networks). These are basic logical
separations of networks that make it difficult for attackers
to pivot across network devices if one is compromised.
Data shows that most of the healthcare industry does not
segment medical IoT devices from other devices such as
personal computers on the networks [6]. The same idea goes
for IoT devices at home. If the devices are not segmented,
then attackers can easily find vulnerabilities, laterally move
in the network, or even creates DoS (denial of service)
attacks using the IoT devices so that none of the devices
can use the network. It does not take long for attackers to
find these devices and exploit them either. Studies show
that IoT devices can be hacked just minutes after they’re
connected [16]” Segmentation is the best way to go because
it ignores the individual IoT device implementations. Trying
to create solutions for every IoT device would be a huge
lift for society. Simply segmenting devices on the networks
stop attackers from doing anything that can damage home
network operations.

1.1.2 Remote Work
Work-life will never be the same since the Coronavirus
pandemic. Remote work is now the norm. Some argue that
cybersecurity helped make this possible [8], and although
this might be true every great development can come with
its issues. ”More than half (60%) of consumers reported
an increased concern for data safety due to the COVID-
19 pandemic [16]” Users noticed that moving all of their
work to their homes creates a new attack surface practically
overnight, and organizations had to follow suit. Setups
and remote-enabling systems were deployed quickly, and
approaches differed from organization to organization just
as much as each user’s ”cyber hygiene” [5]. Studies revealed
that most remote workers associated remote work with am-
ple benefits such as flexibility and time-saving efficiencies,
despite the consequences of decreased social interactions.
Cyberattacks increased and changed to match the tone of
the pandemic, but some teleworkers reported that they ”did
not experience cyberattacks in unprecedented volume [25].”
Incidents, by nature, may not be reported in their entirety to
the public, but data shows that many cyber attacks during
Covid relied on weaknesses that presented themselves with
remote work changes. This manifested itself in the form
of increased ransomware attacks which leveraged RDP (re-
 mote desktop protocol) connections and phishing [13]. Users
tend to use personal accounts a lot for work, and since some
organizations do not require VPN (virtual private network)
usage to tunnel traffic to the internal network, then most
phishing attempts, malware, and other attacks can bypass
detection and security controls.

1.1.3 LAN & WLAN Vulnerabilities

In terms, of non-application protocol-based attacks, Wi-Fi is
generally still an issue since most home networks do not
solely use ethernet. Using WPA3 or forms of hardening
can fix these issues [1]. Most home networks rely on wifi
now, but SOHO routers are still generally attached to the
home network modem. Most small businesses don’t con-
figure their routers correctly either when they don’t have
a network team [30]. In other words, routers will be an
issue until solutions are developed to cover the large risk
surface. Studies show that most home routers and WLAN
networks are prone to various attacks: ”Deauthentication,
Dictionary and Bruteforcing Attack, ARP Poisoning, etc
[4].” A 2020 study on home router security from a German
research group showed that even some of the more secure
routers have around 20 critical CVEs (common vulnerability
enumeration) and around 350 high-rated CVEs. Practically,
all home routers are easy to exploit [37].

1.2 Research Goals - A Solution for Home Users

It has been shown in research that home networks have
value to malicious actors on the Internet. Moreover, home
networks generally have poor security and a lack of visi-
bility which also makes it hard to obtain data showing that
home networks are being consistently attacked daily. This
project attempts to implement a solution to home network
visibility which is the first step towards better home net-
work security. In the corporate world of security, visibility
and ”mapping” is vital to understanding the network and
where to direct security efforts. Without a fundamental
understanding or ontology of the home network, there will
always be low-hanging fruit for the average hacker. Various
methods for home network security monitoring will be
presented which are supported by research and experience
in enterprise security operations.

2 IMPLEMENTATION

Network security monitoring is an area of cybersecurity
that requires more curation of knowledge and methods.
Soon after performing search queries on the subject, one
will only find super technical research or biased articles
from network device manufacturers. The language used to
describe such methods and systems is also too technical
for the average home user. There are only a few official
or professional resources for network security monitoring
that are not trying to sell the reader. This problem also roots
itself in the problem of business is more of a focus than
home networks, and so one arrives at a crossroads where
they either learn networking concepts or they do not obtain
visibility into their home networks.

CIT 55510 NETWORK SECURITY 3

Fig. 1. 5-Layer TCP/IP model showing the encapsulation of data as
various headers are appended in the transmission process over the
internet.

2.1 TCP/IP Model & How the Internet Works

The best way to understand difficult concepts may be to
use a ”mental model” for the concept. The most preva-
lent conceptual models in the networking world are the
OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) model and the 5-layer
TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol)
model. In experience, most argue that the TCP/IP model is
the most sensible model for applying consistently to realistic
networking problems. The process of ”data encapsulation”
is visualized in Figure 1. As data leaves an application or
operating system (Layer 5), it is formed into segments or
datagrams which allow the data to retain its shape and
usability once it arrives at the sender (Layer 4). In Layer
3, the data arrives at the network interface of the sender
where IP addresses of the sender and receiver are appended
to packets or pieces of the data segments from layer 4.
These packets now travel separately over various routers
and switches, while also crossing back and forth various
ISP networks and WANs (wide area networks). Layer 2
involves MAC addresses and usually switches or wireless
transmissions. Layer 1 is the physical medium that the
data travels on such as wires of over-the-air as a wireless
signal. Soon enough, the data is decapsulated at the receiver
and can be used by some applications. This is how all
networking works, and the TCP/IP model allows people
to frame various network problems in ways that are easy
to understand. In the case of home network monitoring,
packets and frames (layer 2) will be monitored at layers
2 and 3 in a home network LAN (local area network) or
WLAN [20] [12].

2.2 Home Network Monitoring Methods

All monitoring will be done at layers 2 and 3 of the TCP/IP
model. In layman’s terms, this means that packets and
frames will be observed which are pieces of data that have
IP addresses (layer 3) or MAC addresses (layer 2). Routers
operate at layer 3 of the model and use IP addresses whereas
switches practically operate with MAC (media access con-
trol) addresses which are installed into devices at manu-
facture time. Wireless networks also have MAC addresses
involved and operate in a similar manner. However, WLAN
is easy to monitor because over-the-air traffic can easily be
 sniffed. Methods for monitoring ethernet traffic at various
points in the network will be reviewed and tested.

2.2.1 Ways to Passively Monitor Networks
There numerous ways to monitor a network in an enterprise
setting, but the home network arguably has 5 methods:

1) SPAN (Switch Port Analyzer) / Mirrored Ports
2) Network/LAN Taps
3) Switch/Router Log Dumping (Netflow or sFlow)
4) Passive Wireless Sniffing
5) ARP Cache Poisoning / ARP Spoofing

All of these methods passively observe network traffic.
Therefore, the network topology is likely to be paramount
in the effectiveness of the monitoring method. In other
words, the traffic has to pass by the viewer for it to be seen.
This dynamic is equivalent to a man-in-the-middle (MITM)
attack. Switch port analyzers or mirrored ports duplicate
the traffic which can be directed using an ethernet cable to
a machine that will ingest and do analysis on the incoming
packets. Local area network taps are the epitome of man-
in-the-middle methods. Taps are put between two network
cables, and the traffic is duplicated or observed via. a 3rd
cable. Log dumping or Netflow requires a switch or router
to have storage that holds all of the observed traffic on it,
which is sent to an external machine over the internet or
other means to be analyzed. The method which is tested
in this project involves ARP (address resolution protocol)
poisoning or ARP spoofing (equivalent meaning)BHIS) [27]
[14] [32] [18].

2.2.2 SIEMs Mentioned in Research
Various SIEMs (Security Information & Event Managment)
and IDS (intrusion detection systems) were mentioned
throughout research such as Suricata, Snort, Zeek/Bro, Se-
curity Onion, and the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash,
KQL). These are not as important as setting up network
monitoring, but each have their strengths and weaknesses
is what they can be used to detect. Research should be done
to determine what sort of security detection engineering
stack should be used for a home network. It is apparent
that advanced attacks require DNS (domain name system)
or website level analysis for detection. However, even these
sorts of attacks require the primary step of setting up
ingestion and monitoring of network traffic [23] [7] [21].

2.3 ARP Spoofing for Monitoring

One of the most unorthodox methods for network security
monitoring is to use ARP spoofing to redirect network
traffic to a machine that will be used for analysis. ARP is
a protocol that is used at Layer 2 of the TCP/IP model. It
allows devices that operate at Layer 3 to figure out the MAC
addresses of devices on the same LAN. The process goes as
such. Host A wants to communicate with Host A, but it only
has its IP address and not its MAC address. Host A could
be a personal computer and Host B could be the gateway
router, and there is a switch (layer 2) between them. Host
A sends out an ARP request asking for the device with
the right IP address to give its MAC address to it. The
switch forwards this request to every attached device. All

CIT 55510 NETWORK SECURITY 4

Fig. 2. Diagram of address resolution protocol cache poisoning at Layer
2 of the TCP/IP model.

operating systems maintain this sort of table with IP and
MAC addresses. The switch has a table with MAC addresses
and and the ports that those devices are plugged into on the
switch device. However, if a malicious actor wants to trick
all other devices to send traffic to it, all the device has to
do use ARP to tell all the other devices that it has the MAC
address of the gateway router. Then, this malicious device
forwards all of the gathered traffic to the gateway router.
The device also has to trick the gateway router to send it all
traffic for monitoring to see incoming and outgoing traffic
as shown in Figure 2 [7] [36].

2.3.1 Bettercap using Ubuntu 20.04

Fig. 3. Bettercap ineffectively ARP spoofing in an Ubuntu 20.04 VM
inside of VMware workstation 17. The red lines are failures.

ARP spoofing is simple to do with Linux systems such
as Ubuntu 18 and 20.04. Bettercap is the most popular
application for ARP spoofing traffic, and it is the same tool
that is used by the penetration testing firm that streamed a
tutorial on networking monitoring with Bettercap. VMware
Workstation 17 is used to load up an Ubuntu 20.04 virtual
machine, then steps are taken to install Bettercap along with
it various libraries and manual symbolic links for the Linux
file system. Bettercap is the most popular because it has
a graphical user interface and also allows for full duplex
spoofing. The VM had to also be set in ”bridged” mode so
that it had an actual attachment to the physical network and
its own IP address for spoofing and redirection of traffic.
Figure 3 shows Bettercap running properly, detecting the
gateway, attempting to ARP spoof and actually losing out. I
was not able to get ARP spoofing to work [7].
 Fig. 4. Configuration and model of Xfinity router.

2.3.2 ARP Spoofing Fails

It was determined that I had a mesh wireless network and
two different APs (access points) which could be used. I
tried ARP spoofing with every possible configuration and
target on the network, but to no avail. Figure 4 shows the
configuration of the modem, and I also looked into the
routers themselves to try doing mirrored traffic but this also
failed. The question is why did it fail?

3 EVALUATION

Fig. 5. Firewalla consumer firewall (uses ARP spoofing) showing that my
router makes it impossible to conduct an ARP spoofing attack (Support
Team).

There exists a consumer firewall hardware called ”Fire-
walla” that does the same method of ARP spoofing for net-
work monitoring, but they refer to it as ”simple mode.” The
documentation for the device was thoroughly researched,
and an explanation was found. Figure 5 shows a line in the
”Simple and DHCP Mode Compatibility with Routers” table
for the Firewalla device. My router was listed in the Xfinity
settings as the ”CGM4331COM” model, but upon further
research, this is equivalent to the ”XB7” gateway listed on
their website. This is shown to be incompatible with ARP
spoofing with the Firewalla, so this was likely the culprit.
Some devices use ARP differently or have protections. I did
not have a tap, router or switch with a SPAN port, or any
other device to help so this was as far as the research could
go [7] [36].

CIT 55510 NETWORK SECURITY 5

3.1 Why Home Network Monitoring is Complex

Home network monitoring is complex due to the fact of
network topology and the sheer variety of functionalities in
routers (especially gateways for ISPs) and switches. Various
network protocol implementations and setups of routers
and sometimes swithces can drastically affect the setup
necessary for monitoring. In the case of this project, the net-
work topology and choice of modem made it impossible to
conduct packet analysis and deeper observation into home
network traffic. The placement of the monitoring device
(personal computer with a VM in this case) will vary based
on the method and hardware being used on the network.

3.2 Network Setup & Monitoring Strategy for Home

Since network monitoring ability is drastically affected by
the modem or gateway router being used, then starting
with the method is vital. If a tap is being used, then any
router or setup can be used as long as the network tap
is placed in a spot on the network where all traffic will
pass, such as right in front of the gateway router. With ARP
spoofing, the buyer should consider a gateway router that
works with ARP spoofing via. a resource such as Firewalla.
It is also important to note that ARP poisoning is a type of
attack, but network monitoring can be used to detect other
devices performing the attack. In the case of log dumping
and mirrored ports on a router, then the gateway router
should have the ability to do those things. Wireless sniffing
is simple, but there are unique problems with trying to
monitor all traffic with that approach [7].
Here is an example of some known devices utilizing various
approaches:

• Plug’n’Play ARP spoof– Firewalla

• Manual ARP spoof – Run Linux with Bettercap on
PC or Raspberry Pi

• Network Taps – throwing star LAN tap from Hak5

• Consumer PnP Firewalls –Ubiquiti Unifi

• Advanced Consumer Options – pfsense routers -
Protectli vault.

4 CONCLUSION

My report starts by looking at literature and research that is
relevant to home network security and widespread issues
related to home users, remote work, IoT, and home net-
work device vulnerabilities and exploits. It is determined
that the best way to approach and solve home network
security issues which are evolving with new threats, is to
deploy a network monitoring solution at home which can
then be used to prioritize network security problems and
understand the unique characteristics of certain network
configurations and topologies. Various network monitoring
methods are proposed to analyze home network traffic, but
the peculiar approach of ARP (address resolution protocol)
spoofing is tested and evaluated using Bettercap in Ubuntu
20.04 and an Xfinity modem. Solutions and a general con-
sumer approach are explained which can be used to setup
a home network which enables for security visibility and
use of a SIEM (security information & event management)
system. Home network security can be improved in people
put just a little bit of effort into understanding their traffic.
 REFERENCES

[1] Hardening applied over a WLAN SOHO environment for mitigation of
vulnerabilities, 2018.
[2] Cybersecurity in SMEs: The smart-home/office use case, 2019.
[3] Consumer Perspectives on Loss of Support for Smart Home Devices. 6th
Workshop on Technology and Consumer Protection (ConPro ’22),
San Francisco, CA, US, 2022.
[4] Penetration test on home network environments: A cybersecurity case
study. Association for Computing Machinery, 2022.
[5] 2022 IEEE 31st International Symposium on Industrial Electronics
(ISIE). Cyber Security at HomeWhat Really Matters to People, 0.
[6] Unit 42 Palo Alto. 2020 unit 42 iot threat report 2020 unit 42 iot
threat report, 03 2020.
[7] BHIS. Webcast: No span port? no tap? no problem!, 07 2021.
[8] Mary Bispham, Sadie Creese, William H. Dutton, Patricia Esteve-
Gonzalez, and Michael Goldsmith. Cybersecurity in working from
home: An exploratory study, 08 2021.
[9] Marco Borza. Cyber security is everyone’s responsibility, 03 2021.
[10] Shelby R Curtis, Jessica Rose Carre, and Daniel Nelson Jones.
Consumer security behaviors and trust following a data breach.
Managerial Auditing Journal, 33:425–435, 01 2018.
[11] Bernd Debusmann. Why remote working leaves us vulnerable to
cyber-attacks. BBC News, 07 2021.
[12] DNSStuff. Ultimate guide to network monitoring, 05 2019.
[13] Tiberiu Georgescu. A study on how the pandemic changed the
cybersecurity landscape. Informatica Economica, 25:42–60, 03 2021.
[14] Gigamon. Tap vs. span: Which option is right for you? — gigamon.
[15] Samuel Ho, Hope Greeson, and Umit Karabiyik. Smart home
forensics: Identifying ddos attack patterns on iot devices. Annual
ADFSL Conference on Digital Forensics, Security and Law, 01 2022.
[16] Bojan Jovanovic. Better safe than sorry: Cyber security statistics
and trends for 2020, 11 2019.
[17] Kaspersky. 1 in 4 wi-fi hotspots just waiting to be hacked,
kaspersky lab stats show, 05 2021.
[18] Keysight. Taps vs spans.
[19] Derek McAuley, Jiahong Chen, Tom Lodge, Richard Mortier,
Stanislaw Piasecki, Diana Andreea Popescu, and Lachlan
Urquhart. Human-centred home network security. 2022.
[20] Microchip. Tcp/ip five-layer software model overview - developer
help, 2019.
[21] Yasir Faraj Mohammed, Paul Cronan, Brajendra Panda, and
Qinghua Li. Network-based detection and prevention system against
DNS-Based attacks. PhD thesis, 2021.
[22] Sunny Valley Networks. Best hardware firewalls for home and
small business networks - sunnyvalley.io, 2022.
[23] Ikechukwu C Nwosu. Intrustion Detection in Soho Networks using
Elasticsearch SIEM. PhD thesis, 2021.
[24] Nandita Pattnaik, Shujun Li, and Jason R.C Nurse. A survey of
user perspectives on security and privacy in a home networking
environment. ACM Comput. Surv., 2022.
[25] Aaron Piper, Alan B. Watkins, Stephen Campbell, Uros Trnjakov,
Maurice Turner, Michael K. Wicks, Robin Regnier, Aaron Wilson,
Phil Langlois, and Joshua M. Franklin. Cis controls telework and
small office network security guide, 202.
[26] Dimas Febriyan Priambodo, Amiruddin, and Nanang Trianto.
Hardening a work from home network with wireguard and
suricata. 2021 International Conference on Computer Science and
Engineering (IC2SE), 11 2021.
[27] Profitap. Comparing network monitoring tools - tap vs. span, 05
2017.
[28] Khurram Salman. Assessing work from home security packages vul-
nerabilities. PhD thesis, 2022.
[29] Karen Seaman. Good cybersecurity starts at home. PhD thesis, 05
2022.
[30] Chris Selph. How soho routers and networks differ from ordinary
ones, 07 2021.
[31] Serhiy Shkarlet, Anatoliy Morozov, Alexander Palagin, Dmitri
Vinnikov, Nikolai Stoianov, Mark Zhelezniak, and Volodymyr
Kazymyr, editors. Architecture of Distributed Blockchain Based Intru-
sion Detecting System for SOHO Networks. Mathematical Modeling
and Simulation of Systems, Springer International Publishing,
2022.
[32] Viavi Solutions. Tap vs span.
[33] Rebecca Spiewak. Overlooking the Little Guy: An Analysis of Cyber
Incidents and Individual Harms. PhD thesis, 05 2022.
[34] Smiljanic Stasha. Smart home statistics: 2021 update — policy
advice, 2020.

CIT 55510 NETWORK SECURITY 6

[35] Statista. Iot: number of connected devices worldwide 2012-2025
— statista, 2012.
[36] Support Team. Router compatibility: Simple and dhcp mode, 12
2022.
[37] P. Weidenbach and J. Vom Dorp. Home router security report 2020,
2020.
[38] Jing Yang and Laura Linkeschov´a. Remote working and cybersecurity
in the pandemic: Research on the employee perceptions of remote work
and cybersecurity in an international organisation during COVID-19.
PhD thesis, 2021.