

Vulnerable Road Users and Cellular
Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) Security

Abena G. Achianor
Purdue School of Engineering and Technology.
IUPUI.
Indianapolis,Indiana
agyasiwa@iu.edu
 Garvit Agarwal
Purdue School of Engineering and Technology.
IUPUI.
Indianapolis,Indiana
gagarwa@iu.edu

Ismail Bibers
Purdue School of Engineering and Technology.
IUPUI.
Indianapolis,Indiana
ibibers@iu.edu
 Benjamin Rader
Purdue School of Engineering and Technology.
IUPUI.
Indianapolis,Indiana
berader@iu.edu

Ericka White
Purdue School of Engineering and Technology.
IUPUI.
Indianapolis,Indiana
whiteerl@iu.edu

Abstract—In 2020 alone over 10,000 vulnerable road users
(VRUs) died while going through an intersection [14]. VRUs are
classified as bicyclists, pedestrians, and motorcyclists, and they
play a big role in the future of autonomous driving. VRUs are
at a high risk of being hurt when they are on the road; yet,
VRUs have not typically been a priority when the automotive
manufactures are building cars. That is until recently when C-
V2X was introduced to replace DSRC. Multiple industries are
now working together to provide a well-rounded experience for
the drivers as well as VRUs within C-V2X vehicles. Companies
invested in the C-V2X movement are presenting use cases to
help researchers uncover areas that may have been overlooked
and need more attention. Our group researched a particular use
case that was presented named vulnerable roadside collisions
warning (VRUCW) that will be implemented into autonomous
C-V2X vehicles. While researching VRUCW we found several
wireless security issues that need to be addressed. Therefore, in
this article we will give you some background surrounding C-
V2X and VRUCW, provide research from the risk assessment
conducted on VRUCW, and provide solutions that should be
implemented to prevent them.
Index Terms—VRUCW, VRUs, C-V2X, Wireless Security

I. INTRODUCTION

Cellular Vehicle to Everything is the next step in improving
transportation efficiency, safety, and understanding. Stats from
the World Health Organization show that road traffic injuries
are a problem and that the core issues are not going to fix
themselves. Road traffic injuries are still the leading cause of
death, the world over, for people ages 5 through 29. Over a
million people die each year from road traffic crashes, half of
all road traffic deaths are among those who are not in a ”metal
shell”, most road traffic deaths occur in low and middle-
 income countries, and these crashes cost most countries around
3% of their gross domestic product [33]. C-V2X may not
be immediately feasible for most countries. However, such a
statement assumes that C-V2X cannot be cheap enough for
such countries. When it comes to intelligent transportation
systems (ITS), governments and the transportation industry
need smart minds and problem solvers to leap into the fray
and innovate new techniques, methods, and technologies. The
journey towards C-V2X arguably began in 1999 when the
FCC allocated 75MHz of the spectrum to Dedicated Short
Range Communication (DSRC). This was introduced as a
part of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE)’s 802.11p standard and was intended to be a vehicular
communication protocol for wireless access in vehicular envi-
ronments (WAVE). One of the defining parts of DSRC, WAVE,
or WLAN-based V2X (all the same thing) was the fact that it
is WLAN or Wi-Fi. It was approved in 2010 and many vehicle
manufacturers started supporting it. Companies like Toyota in
2015, Cadillac in 2017, and Volkswagen in 2019 with the Golf
8 model were a few of the corporations pushing for its integra-
tion into vehicles. DSRC was gaining popularity in Europe and
Japan the most. However, C-V2X was introduced soon after
DSRC and it used cellular instead. Adoption was pretty even
for both until 5G was introduced. Although most companies
had engineering problems and dilemmas due to the availability
of OEM components for DSRC or C-V2X, 5G was a future-
facing development that was quite promised, and 3GPP’s
work in C-V2X was thorough and extensive in accounting for
various integration and implementation problems for C-V2X.
Surprisingly in 2020 after Covid-19 exploded all over the

planet, the FCC split up the spectrum that had been preserved
for V2V with DSRC to unlicensed wi-fi applications. People
who are devoted to DSRC still fight on and have slowed down
efforts to switch OEMs over to C-V2X. The takeaways and
reasons for C-V2X winning were that it was easier to integrate
into society because of existing cellular infrastructure, and C-
V2X was more oriented toward future innovation with 5G
development which is marketable and future-facing in terms
of technologal enablement. All in all, C-V2X was just as
performant with latency as DSRC was, it was future-facing
with 5G applications, and it was cost effective in terms of
deployment of infrastructure because LTE and 5G systems
could be used with it [22] [23] [17] [11] [10] [15].
C-V2X development originates from 3GPP (3rd Generation
Partnership Program). 3GPP is a decentralized entity that
includes tons of experts from various companies who have
volunteered to work on technical specifications for various
wireless technologies. 3GPP develops technical specifications,
then standard-setting organizations in countries and interna-
tional regions develop standards which are then used by the
manufacturers and product makers. The most notable aspects
of 3GPP’s development with C-V2X are the creation of
direct and indirect communications for C-V2X through LTE
in Releases 14 and 15, and then further developments in
5G with Releases 16 and 17. Most developments in 5G are
also backward compatible with the Release 14 and 15-based
communications in V2X.

II. CELLULAR V2X

Cellular V2X communication is crucial in transferring safe,
dependable, and adept transportation services that may be
considered in both the short and enduring and fulfill today’s
and time to come’s expectations. Cellular V2X (C-V2X) is
a tertiary-generation participation project (3GPP) technology
that is created to function in both vehicle-to-vehicle and
vehicle-to-network modes. It is a bigger developing technology
that can conclude V2X requirements while also preparing
the most methodical approach to connected and autonomous
driving. vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication is critical
for creating real-time and well reliable information for im-
plementing cautious, efficient, and environmentally conscious
transportation duties [24].
Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) has monstrous po-
tential to bring significant life-changing improvements in
worldwide vehicular traffic administration [24] [5]. It aids
in the reduction of troubles such as enhancing vehicle and
pedestrian safety with capabilities such as vehicle notifica-
tion and control for approaching emergency vehicles with
distance/direction information, pedestrians crossing in a cross-
walk (traffic lights/signals will be controlled or extended for
safety and during unexpected events, allowing the identifica-
tion and avoidance of a pedestrian darting into traffic, traffic
congestion, when an accident is near, a notification of its
location and distance will be sent. Things such as school
bus notifications, including unloading/loading school children
in the area, raised fuel consumption, road security, and road
 capacity. It organizes a framework for cars to communicate
with one another and with the entirety around them, develop-
ing all-around non-line-of-sight knowledge and a better level
of predictability for increased driver safety and autonomous
forcefulness.
Cellular V2X is a 3GPP standard used in vehicle-to-
vehicle (V2V) applications like self-driving automobiles. IEEE
802.11p, the standard for V2V and other sorts of V2X means,
is an alternative. Cellular V2X uses 3GPP standards 4G LTE
or 5G traveling cellular connectedness to transmit messages
betwixt automobiles, pedestrians, and roadside traffic control
equipment in the way that traffic lights. It commonly makes
use of the 5.9 GHz commonness range, which is in an official
manner designated as the intelligent conveyance system (ITS)
frequency in the vast most countries. C-V2X is network-free
and has a 25% higher range than DSRC. [4].
The types of transfer communications capabilities include :

• vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I)

• vehicle-to-network (V2N)

• vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V)

• vehicle-to-pedestrian (V2P)

A. C-V2X Communication Transmission Modes

C-V2X supports basic road safety features by exchanging
messages regarding the position, speed, and direction with the
surrounding vehicles, and infrastructure. C-V2X defines two
complementary transmission modes [34]

• Short-range/sideline: The mechanisms that allow direct
Safety vehicular communications via PC5 interface and
it is operating in ITS bands (e.g. 5.9 GHz) under the out-
of-coverage/independent of the cellular network such as
Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V), Vehicle to Infrastructure (V2I),
and Vehicle to pedestrian(V2P). Figure 2.

Fig. 1. Direct communications Mode / Designed to Work Without Network
Assistance

• Long-range/cellular network communications: The mech-
anisms that allow direct vehicular communications while
the cellular network base station allocates radio resources
to the vehicle by the (Uu) interface operates in traditional
mobile broadband licensed spectrum such as Vehicle to
Network V2N. Figure 3.

Fig. 2. Network Base communications/ Designed to Work with Network
Assistance

B. RSU and OBU Communicate

Since PC5-based C-V2X does not necessitate a cellular
network [25], typically there are two types of wireless devices
RSU (Road Side Unit) and OBU (On Board Unit) are required
to implement C-V2X V2I/V2V/V2P application scenarios:

• RSU: Without the need for cellular networks, a wireless
transmitting device can allow direct sildelink communi-
cation through a PC5 interface. Road signs, traffic lights,
and IP camera information can be broadcasted in real-
time to the vehicle via RSU in the predefined area.
Another useful scenario is that RSU can be equipped with
a SIM card to transfer road information via cellular net-
works to create additional applications for public safety.

• OBU: Equipped in a vehicle as a wireless communication
device to improve the sensor function of autonomous
driving buses by direct communication with RSU and
other OBUs. OBU is responsible for broadcasting the
vehicle’s location, direction, and speed information to
other defined devices while receiving other vehicles’ data
as input for its internal algorithms to avoid possible
accidents.

C. C-V2X Application Scenarios

RSU/OBU designs must be equipped with 3GPP C-V2X
agreeable chipsets in order to use C-V2X applications. Such
chipsets are commercially available from Qualcomm, Intel,
Huawei, Datang, and Autotalks. Currently, Taiwan uses Qual-
comm 9150 for PC5-based C-V2X field testing and commer-
cial deployments [32] [19]. Many interesting applications have
come to achievement. The following are some examples of
scenarios:

• VRUCW (Vulnerable Road User Collision Warning): a
V2P service that warns the driver or independent driving
control whole when a vehicle detects a potential pedes-
trian collision hazard on the roadside through IP Camera
and RSU.

• ICW (Intersection Collision Warning): a V2V help that
informs the host vehicle driving towards an intersection
if an accident is imminent.
 • EBW (Emergency Brake Warning): another V2V service,
which warns the host vehicle if the front remote vehicle
is making a sudden brake. The host vehicle receives an
alert from the front vehicle and determines if a collision
will happen.

• DNPW (Do Not Pass Warning): a V2V service used when
a host vehicle intends to pass the front vehicle in the
opposite direction lane. The adjacent car moving in the
added direction will be informed by the host vehicle. The
OBU of the host vehicle will receive a DNPW message
to decide if it is safe to pass.

• TSP (Traffic Signal Preemption): a V2I service that
admits high-priority vehicles nearing the signal control
junction, such as ambulances, fire engines, and police
cars, to transmit a priority signal so that the vehicles can
pass through.
 III. VRUCW

Vulnerable Road User Collision Warning (VRUCW) [5]
can be defined as a V2P (Vehicle To Pedestrian) service that
alerts the driver or autonomous driving control unit when a
vehicle is sensing a potential pedestrian collision threat via
IP Camera and RSU on the roadside. VRUCW is perhaps the
most important implementation of CV2X as it directly impacts
roadside accidents and can help us save hundreds of thousands
of lives.

A. Vulnerable Road Users

So in order to implement the Vulnerable Road User Colli-
sion Warning, we first need to define what these Vulnerable
Road Users are. The term vulnerable road user [2] (VRU) is
used mainly to describe those unprotected by an outside shield,
as they sustain a greater risk of injury in any collision with a
vehicle and are therefore highly in need of protection against
such collisions.
Various VRU categories are :

• Pedestrians

• Cyclists (including eBikes)

• Motorcyclists

• Road workers

• Wheelchair users

• Scooter, skateboard and Segway users

B. How VRUCW Works?

The architecture of VRUCW is extremely similar to the
general architecture of CV2X. Since we could not create an
actual implementation of CV2X, and consequently VRUCW,
we had to take an existing model which is present at [1]. This
paper included a small-scale prototype of VRUCW that we
inherited for all of our research work. The multi-steps that
includes in the typical functioning of VRUCW are:

• RSU, as a roadside equipment, receives information from
outside sources, such as AI servers, and 4G/5G telecom-
munication networks. Then, it broadcasts this information
by PC5 interface using a unified message format in its
coverage field, the maximum reachable radius can be one

kilometer if there are no obstacles such as buildings or
trees.

• OBU is connected with the Industrial PC (IPC) of the
autonomous driving system via Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP)/Internet Protocol (IP) protocol. The OBU
with 12V power is provided by the vehicle, and antennas
of OBU should be installed outside of vehicle for better
messages receiving. After a successful 3-way TCP/IP
handshake connection between OBU and control unit of
autonomous vehicle, OBU can receive Global Navigation
System Satellite (GNSS) and Controller Area Network
(CAN) messages from the vehicle’s control unit.

• Combining vulnerable road user information from RSU,
OBU can instantly judge the status of road safety and
notify the autonomous driving control unit.
A visual representation of these steps is given in the figure
below:
 Fig. 3. VRUCW Architecture

C. VRUCW Components

1) AI Server: The AI Server in this modeled VRUCW ar-
chitecture is from [1], which had the following specifications:

• CPU I7-8700K

• GPU 2 × GTX1080Ti

• RAM 256 G

• Hardisk 1 TB

• OS Windows 10
We understand that these specs are not ideal for a full-
scale AI Server, and consequently, this shows in the latency
within Camera-RSU Communication. The experiments that the
authors did can be shown in the following table:

Fig. 4. Latency Table

Artificial Intelligence (AI) detection, object recognition and
movement prediction for collision warning are used in this
model. In the AI server, SSD and ResNet-18 [24] were
implemented as network framework. SSD, which stands for
 Single Shot Detection, means that AI server only needs to take
one single shot to detect multiple objects within the image.
Compared with the two-stage image detection, the inference
and error rate are greatly reduced. The deep residual network
(ResNet) is one of the most commonly convolution neural
networks (CNNs) for the image feature extraction. ResNet-18
consists of 17 convolution layers and a fully connected layer
as shown in Figure 7. This neutral network reduces the amount
of calculation by using a 3 × 3 small convolution kernel, so
that the time consumption of handling process can meet the
low latency required by C-V2X in 3GPP Rel-14 [27].
2) Algorithm of Information Flow: The flow of information
followed simple processes which were directed by an algo-
rithm. This algorithm takes into account the distance between
the Vehicle and the Vulnerable Road User (S), and it also takes
in the speed of the vehicle (V). This algorithm is shown in
Fig 5:
 Fig. 5. Algorithm for VRUCW Trigger in OBU

D. Information Flow process
Initially, the image size that the camera sends to the AI
Server is 2592 × 1944 and an image extraction speed of 10
frames per second are used in this VRUCW model [26]. The
AI server equipped with the target classification algorithm is
utilized to determine the pedestrian’s category results, which
include a person, car, motorcycle, a person with an umbrella,
baby carriage, and a person at night. If a pedestrian passes
this area under camera coverage, AI server will detect this
object and transfer object recognition, position information,
and movement prediction analysis results to RSU. RSU encap-
sulates these messages into broadcast packages and broadcasts
this information to all the OBUs within the coverage area of
RSU. Meanwhile, the autonomous driving vehicle’s control
unit sends GNSS and CAN messages to OBU by 50 Hz or
100 Hz frequency. OBU is responsible for combining all the
information to determine if a collision is approaching. We
use below Algorithm 1 for collision warning trigger threshold
after detecting an object. S is the distance between the host
vehicle and the pedestrian. V is the speed of the host vehicle.
When all the trigger points are met for the alert threshold,
a VRU warning message will be sent out from OBU to the
autonomous vehicle control unit. Autonomous vehicle own
control policy for slowing down or stopping is out of the scope
of VRUCW.

SCENARIOS

E. Scenario One: Urban Intersection Implementation

Fig. 6. The Basic Road Safety services which are relevant to VRUCW
are highlighted in Red to show important metric requirements for the PC5
connection. These requirements are defined in the 3GPP technical specification
(TS) 22.185 ”Service Requirements for V2X Services V14.4.0” from 2018
[12].

Perhaps one of the most problematic situations for
vulnerable road user collision warnings is city intersections.
Between the potentially dense populations and the high
number of large objects, there is a lot of room for error. Not
to mention, it is hard to defend against attacks in a densely
populated area and the larger amount of devices can leave
more room os denial of service attacks against RSUs.Stats and
research on urban area VRU accidents undeniably show that
using VRUCW could save tons of lives. For instance, cyclist
crashes with cars account for a large percentage of accidents
in urban settings. This is especially relevant to developed
countries where the fatalities of cyclists have quickly increased
with growing cycling habits. Most of these crashes seem to
occur in intersection scenarios or places where the car cannot
have line-of-sight with the cyclist from things like buildings
or backing out of parking lots [31] [1]. The characteristics of
VRU accidents are also deeply intertwined with the number
of vehicles and the speed. Most accidents occur during the
late afternoon hours in high-density areas. Research also
suggests that intersections have the highest risk and accidents
with VRUs are 10.6 times more likely. High vehicle speed
also correlates to worse injuries and much more fatalities [38].

Fig. 7. RSU performance in an intersection in China. The red indicates poor
performance from path loss and shadowing due to distance and objects causing
interference [2].
 1) RSU Interference (NLOS): Cities are home to all sorts
of in-ground objects, architectural wonders, and large metal
shapes that make up the over-the-air mediums for all sorts
of signals. In the case of PC5, these objects cause all sorts
of interference, and this interference comes in the form of
path loss and shadowing. These are two types of ”large scale
fading” which are dependent on the medium of a signal and
the distance the signal must travel. Shadowing is more related
to obstructions and the signal frequency and path loss is also
similar. What is important to note is that all signals and their
ability to transmit in their environments depends on their
frequency, power, and the nature of the objects between the
transmitters and the receivers [39].
In cities, it is very important to understand the various
components of the signals, potential obstructions, and the
general medium for those signals. In order to predict where
transmitters will work best, mathematical methods for deter-
mining the performance of a signal called ”channel models”
are used. The problem with these models is that some may
not be accurate to the environment the user is intending for. If
the right channel model is not used before deploying an RSU,
then signals may not propagate well enough to meet the 3GPP
basic road safety standards [12]. Most researchers define these
as non-line-of-sight (NLOS) cases.
The sidelink interface (PC5) uses the decentralized schedul-
ing of mode 4 instead of the centralized scheduling of mode
3. Mode 4 uses ”sensing-based SPS” which is short for semi-
persistent scheduling. The semi-persistent scheduling part
means that any communicating nodes on the channel which
have a conversation going will use the channel in a semi-
persistent manner. In other words, ”each node successively
uses the same frequency resource at specific times.” The
sensing part is based on two things: the history of past resource
slot utilization and the estimation of the interference of future
slots. In layman’s terms, PC5 communication between devices
(RSUs and OBUs) is not decided by a base station and it
depends on interference of the signals [12] [19].
Research simulating PC5 and DSRC with NS-3 and SUMO
showed that C-V2X (even compared to DSRC) is not as great
in NLOS scenarios. However, the other benefits outweigh the
costs (reliability, latency) and it still has less Package Error
Rate (PER) as path loss increases [28]. Additionally, CV2X
was shown to outperform in NLOS and congestion cases [20].
However, this testing was quite limited, especially in channel
model usage.
Research from Beijing with actual RSU devices in
Urban scenarios showed that intersections specifically create
plenty of shadowing and ”shielding” for RSU signals. It
was mentioned that this is most applicable to intersection
collision warnings which can be thought of as more specific
applications of VRUCWs. Due to increased package loss
rate and power-related parameters, it was determined RSU
devices can feasibly cover only one intersection at a time
in urban settings. This is most true for dense downtown
intersections, and multiple RSUs should be placed to make
up for shadowing and path loss [2].

Fig. 8. Quality of service requirements for an intersection collision warning
(ICW) [19].

Fig. 9. Flawed simulation configurations are highlighted in RED from
research that tries to prove PC5 cannot feasibly do VRUCW in intersections.
Other research suggests that these configurations drastically affect PC5
performance in simulations and that better channel models such as the one
proposed in Rel 15 from 3GPP should instead be used [19] [6].

2) Vehicle Congestion: For VRUCWs to work properly,
they need to be timely. This is why 3GPP has such high-
standard requirements for basic road safety messages. Basic
road safety messages, by default, are sent out ten times per
second or every 100ms [29]. The core function of C-V2X is
to allow various entities to understand the position of other
entities at all times. For this to happen, as was mentioned in
the architecture section, computation, AI, and other intelligent
systems are required to understand and process the locations
of these entities. This can lead to the question of how many
entities such a system can handle at once. If any piece of
 the system fails to meet the basic road safety latency and
availability requirements, then there could be a catastrophic
loss of life.
There are two factors to account for when simulating PC5
performance in a congested scenario: the number of vehicles
or OBUs and the channel model being used to simulate the
signal interference and path loss. Using a few channel models
with PC5 in a highway scenario, simulations indicated that
the performance of PC5 in simulations greatly depends on
the channel model being used. The packet reception ratio
(PRR) was calculated for three channel models along with
different bandwidths. It was shown that the newly defined
3GPP channel model from Release 15 performed at 100%
PRR while the popular WINNER II channel model performed
at 54.85%. Using the correct channel model can drastically
affect studies [6]. Research using the ”Manhattan Scenario”
also backed supported this conclusion [7].
Some research claims that PC5 mode 5 performs only a per-
centage of the VRUCW quality of service (QoS) requirements.
As shown in Figure 8, it is claimed that VRUCW, ICW, or any
sort of collision warning requires basic road safety messages
to be transmitted between the VRU and vehicle parties at
least times and 2.5 seconds before a collision occurs. This
gives the vehicle the average required time to slow down. The
research suggests that RSUs cannot perform well enough in
small, medium, or large intersections and that the RSUs can
only accommodate a small number of entities [19]. However,
as stated in other research the channel model and doppler
effect can greatly reduce the proposed performance of PC5
depending on what is used during simulation. In this case,
the WINNER II models with LOS and NLOS are used. It
was shown in previous research that these perform poorly [6].
Additionally, the research from [19] includes vehicles that are
going anywhere from 120km/h - 240 km/h which equates to
at least 74mph through an intersection! These two findings
which are shown in Figure 9 prove that such research is deeply
flawed.
Qualcomm and 5GAA studies show that extensive lab
simulations with large numbers of actual RSU devices perform
well in congested scenarios. They perform even better with
congestion mechanisms too [8] [28]. In other words, there
is conflicting research that suggests simulations need to use
more accurate channel models and that comparisons are not
as simple as running NS-3 and SUMO with some generic
channel model.

3) Resource Block Attacks: As explained in previous sec-
tions, the decentralized PC5 mode 4 does not use a base station
but instead uses sensing-based semi-persistent scheduling to
decide which parts of the 5.9GHz channel to use and when.
During this process between RSUs and/or OBUs, vehicles
decide specifically based on the Received Signal Strength
Indicator (RSSI). After the vehicle chooses, then Basic Safety
Messages (BSMs), which are the same as the ones explained
in the congestion scenario, are transmitted continuously ten
times per second. Assuming resource blocks are ”orthogonal”,

Fig. 10. Example of a cooperative attack scenario where there are just as
many malicious OBU vehicles are there are normal vehicles [37]

every once in a while, these vehicles may choose the same
resource block as another vehicle and there may be packet
collisions. This is very rare with a small number of vehicles
and still quite rare with hundreds of vehicles. However, due
to the decentralized nature of mode 4, it is possible to
proactively jump into resource block allocations and cause
packet collisions. Research on DoS attacks against PC5 mode
4 shows that there is high risk for easy interruption of BSMs
and total failure of VRUCW functionality. There are two
ways for attackers to successfully create a denial of service
on PC5 mode 4. In an urban scenario, attackers could set
up enough malicious OBUs that are modified. When attacker
OBUs cooperate and there are enough of them, then there can
be total deniability of RSU resources. In the ”oblivious” attack
method where attackers are not cooperating or ”aiming” for
particular target vehicles, they can have just as much success
with high vehicle densities or congestion scenarios [37].

F. Scenario Two: The Camera Coverage Area is Limited

In this scenario, the inability to detect road users is because
of the: hidden angle/ blind spot. In this case, the camera cannot
see the road user, which may endanger road users.

G. Scenario Three: RSU Failure and Cost Effectiveness

Fig. 11. Example of redundant RSUs which could be connected by fiber or
a 5G connection. If one fails, then the others take its place.

When installing RSUs on structures, installers should be
mindful that other signs and devices on the structure may
impact the RSU [3]. Since the system has been known to
 experience failures due to inclement weather such as high
winds whipping around signage on a pole, taking out RSU
antennas, and causing damage [3].
RSUs that are not properly grounded can cause lightning
strikes to target the ungrounded metal structures. With struc-
tures not grounded this introduces a voltage surge that enters
the RSU at the Ethernet connector [3]. The Ethernet connector
is attached directly to a Power over Ethernet (PoE) Splitter
electronic subassembly mounted inside the RSU. When this
piece is damaged, the PoE Splitter ceases communications
with the Control Unit. The PoE splitter for RSU must be
replaced – RSU will return to normal functionality again [3].
For the cost-effectiveness of RSUs, if they are widely
deployed around a city, coverage will be expanded, but the
RSU setup cost may be too high [18]. This creates a major
challenge in figuring out how to accurately deploy a small
number of RSUs while ensuring excellent coverage since the
cost could range between 13,000 and 15,000 per unit capital
cost, and up to 2,400 per unit per year for operation and
maintenance [18]. Due to the high cost of implementing RSUs
many large deployments of the system may fail [18].

SCENARIOS SOLUTIONS

H. Solution for Scenario One: Urban Intersection Implemen-
tation

There are various ways to approach designing solutions for
the urban intersection implementations of VRUCW. Through
the conducted research, it has been determined that C-V2X
product manufacturers and enablers must be smart about where
RSUs are placed, how congestion is handled in PC5 mode 4,
and what sorts of security should be used to mitigate resource
block weaknesses.

Fig. 12. Example of tracking reflections over time in an environment using the
KEST algorithm. ”Tracked path over time in urban environment as a results
of the proposed tracking algorithm [36].”

1) RSU Interference (NLOS) - Create Channel Models for
Each Situation: NLOS can be a huge issue for intersection

collisions involving VRUs. This involves cases where there is
interference with the RSU signal to vehicles or VRUs, and
the result is more latency, packet loss, or increased power
usage. However, research suggests that there is hope for NLOS
issues. The channel model is perhaps the most important piece
of mitigating NLOS problems and being cost-effective about
where to install RSUs in an urban setting or any setting where
there exists a potential for signal path loss and shadowing.
The solution is rather simple - use better channel models
before setting up C-V2X network topologies in cities. There
are multiple approaches to creating channel models: ”deter-
ministic, stochastic, and geometry-based stochastic channel
models (GSCMs) [36].” Channel model studies have been
conducted using the GSCM approach. They used a ”super
resolution estimation and tracking algorithm”, named KEST,
to estimate specular multipath components of an environment.
In an NLOS situation, they used their method to recognize
scattering from various objects and in turn develop a more
accurate channel model. Such techniques should be refined a
bit more before use in actual cities, but the research shows
promise for creating better processes in city C-V2X planning
[36].
2) Vehicle Congestion - Congestion Mechanisms: The so-
lution to congestion affecting latency and the application of
VRUCW (not including malicious actors) involves using pro-
grammatic mechanisms. Just as with any other communication
channel handling, there will be some slowdown as more
entities fill up the channel. However, this can be done more
elegantly with a programmatic approach. The Society of Au-
tomotive Engineers actually developed a ”muting” mechanism
defined as J3161/1 (On-Board System Requirements for LTE
V2X V2V Safety Communications) to mitigate congestion
problems. Extensive research from Qualcomm refutes oppos-
ing claims with strong evidence that this mechanism works
to defeat congestion latency in situations where basic safety
messages (BSMs) are a priority. This includes the VRUCW
situation [8] [28]. However, the problem with any congestion
mechanism is that it still relies on the goodwill of users. If
malicious users decide to go against these requirements, then
they can be selfish and use up resources for themselves. In
other words, some sort of security is still necessary to prevent
the potentially deadly possibility.
3) Resource Block Attacks - TESLA Hash Chains & PKI:
Most research suggests the use of PKI (public key infras-
tructure) to handle PC5 communication integrity and secrecy.
However, it is well-known that such an approach would
cost vehicle manufacturers and OEMs a large amount of
money. Manufacturers would need a hardware security module
(HSM), license for certificates, certificates for pseudonymiza-
tion, expenses for PKI integration, deployment, and even
maintenance. A conservative estimate puts this at 30 euros
per vehicle and results in an estimated 88 billion euros worth
of authorization tickets in just the 1st year [16]. PKC would
utilize ECDSA (Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm)
along with some servers at the ”edge” (multi-edge comput-
ing/MEC). Research suggests that TESLA (Timed Efficient
 Fig. 13. Comparison of performance of PKI (public key infrastructure) with
pseudonym use vs. TESLA SKC (symmetric key cryptography) and hash
chaining [29]

Stream Loss-tolerant Authentication) is a ”viable alternative”
to PKC. Most researchers did not consider TESLA because
of the overhead needed to establish hash chains during the
process. Based on specification sheets of HSMs, the signature
generation and verification times for PKC are estimated to
be 0.125ms and 0.5ms. These are not costly when there is
a low number of vehicles. However, as shown in Figure 13,
a larger number of vehicles results in a latency singularity
where generation and verification cannot be done fast enough.
TESLA uses SKC MAC to protect the integirty of messages.
”A sequence of keys used by a given sender is generated such
that the Nth key used is the result of applying a hash function
to the N+1th key. Thus, the hash function can be used to
verify a sequence of keys used by a given sender, and hence
the sequence of messages it sent, provided that the first key
in the sequence can reliably be attributed to that sender. The
main benefits of TESLA are low computation overhead, low
communication overhead, and robustness to packet loss [29].”
Further research from the same researchers show how a V2X
Application Server can be used to proactively and reliably
give out hash chain key committments based on the locations
of vehicles. This shows how TESLA could be pragmatically
applied in a cheap manner for realistic VRUCW scenarios
[30].

I. Solution for Scenario Two: Limited Coverage Area

We need to consider these limitations of the camera cover-
age area.

• The first solution is to add more cameras for full cov-
erage, But this depends on the cost of the investment
because adding more cameras causes the budget to in-
crease.

• The second solution, Relying on the sensor data of the
embedded vehicles is the first solution by communicating
and sending alert messages to each other V2V and V2I
via the PC5 interface to ensure the safety of VRUs who
are visible from the vehicles.

Fig. 14. Safety messages include Cooperative Awareness Messages, Vehicle-
to-Vehicle (V2V), Vehicle-to-Pedestrian (V2P), Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
(V2I)

J. Solution for Scenario Three: Information Re-distribution
and Redundancy

The solution of re-distribution and redundancy of informa-
tion from the OBUs to the active RSUs would be the most
effective route.
If you have 3 RSUs within a communication range con-
nected by fiber or 5G connection, and one fails, the remaining
systems will continue to gather information. The OBUs will
accumulate and collect data from the vehicle(s) until the RSU
regains power. The Remaining RSUs will also continue to
collect data from the OBUs simultaneously until the out-of-
service RSU is fixed or replaced. The cycle of information
being transmitted back and forth between the two systems
assures round-the-clock safety for vulnerable road users. [3].

IV. RELATED WORKS

A. 5GAA

5G Automotive Association (5GAA) is a cross-industry or-
ganization focused on bridging the gap between companies in
the automotive, technology, and telecommunication industries
[9]. Their goal is to use wireless technology to create vehicle-
to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communications [9].
Currently they are working on several cross-border projects
to ensure reliable access to 5G network. One of their most
recent projects was a case study done in China to see how C-
V2X direct PC5 communication could be used as a tolling
application on highways and in highway scenarios [21]. It
provided an investment analysis for necessary infrastructure,
study on what C-V2X development would be beneficial, and
information how the PC5 C-V2X would differ from traditional
tolling China uses now [21]. In addition to case studies, 5GAA
also hosts numerous conferences that allow various companies
to introduce projects they are working on to make C-V2X a
reality.

B. Qualcomm

Qualcomm is one of the numerous companies that 5GAA
is in cahoots with. They provide cloud connected autonomous
platforms for telecommunication, computing, and driver as-
sistance and autonomy [35]. Snapdragon is their most recent
 project that is providing customers with a cloud connected
autonomous platform. Snapdragon is compliant with Release
15 of 3GPP making it capable of working with 5G-NR, having
access to vehicle-to-everything communications, etc. [35].
Therefore, it allows car manufacturers with the opportunity to
provide a safer and immersive experience to their customers
with the new technological features that Snapdragon has [35].

Fig. 15. Qualcomm Snapdragon

V. CONCLUSION

Cellular vehicle-to-everything (C-V2X) has proven to be the
future of autonomous driving. Electronically extending a vehi-
cle’s line of sight by providing danger alerts, road awareness,
and traffic cooperation. Providing a higher capacity of data
for receiving and transmitting information securely. Housing
the vulnerable road user collision warning component that
allows the safe passage of vulnerable road users who are left
unprotected in the event of an accident. And a redistribution
and redundancy mechanism in the event of system failure.

REFERENCES

[1] Cyclist-car accidents: their consequences for cyclists and typical acci-
dent scenarios, 2015.
[2] Research on wireless coverage performance of LTE-V2X in urban
scenario, 2021.
[3] J.D. Schneeberger . Connected vehicle deployment technical assistance,
roadside unit (rsu) lessons learned and best practice, 05 2020.
[4] Ralph . The technical writer’s handbook, by matt young, university
science books, mill valley, california, 1989, 232 pp. Mol. Reprod. Dev.,
25:97–97, 1990.
[5] 2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR). Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition, 0.
[6] 2018 10th International Conference on Communications, Circuits and
Systems (ICCCAS). Performances of CV2X Communication on Highway
under Varying Channel Propagation Models, 0.
[7] 2019 IEEE 90th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2019Fall).
Performance Analysis of CV2X Mode 4 Communication Introducing an
OpenSource CV2X Simulator, 0.
[8] Hamza Abbasi and Ralph Gholmieh. C-v2x performance in highly
congested highway scenarios, 01 2021.
[9] 5G Automotive Association. 5gaa discusses how c-v2x turns connected
and safe mobility into reality at mobile world congress 2022 in barcelona
– 5g automotive association, 03 2022.
[10] AUTOCRYPT. Dsrc vs. c-v2x: A detailed comparison of the 2 types of
v2x technologies, 01 2021.
[11] Autotalks. C-v2x vs dsrc — get your facts straight on cellular v2x, lte-v
lte-v2x, 08 2021.
[12] S Chen, J Hu, Y Shi, L Zhao, and W Li. A vision of cv2x: Technologies,
field testing, and challenges with chinese development. IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, 7:3872–3881, 0.

[13] NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL. Position/policy statement - vulnera-
ble road users, 2018.
[14] Transportation Department. Enhancing the safety of vulnerable road
users at intersections; request for information, 09 2022.
[15] Gary Elinoff. Is c-v2x overtaking dsrc in vehicle-to-vehicle communi-
cations? - news, 03 2019.
[16] Mikael Fallgren, Markus Dillinger, Toktam Mahmoodi, and Tommy
Svensson. Cellular V2X for Connected Automated Driving. Wiley 2021,
2021.
[17] Jonathan M. Gitlin. Court rules fcc is allowed to reassign 5.9 ghz
bandwidth, killing v2x, 08 2022.
[18] Abderrahim Guerna, Salim Bitam, and Carlos Calafate. Roadside unit
deployment in internet of vehicles systems: A survey. Sensors, 22:3190,
04 2022.
[19] Takeshi Hirai and Tutomu Murase. Performance evaluations of pc5based
cellularv2x mode 4 for feasibility analysis of driver assistance systems
with crash warning. Sensors, 20:2950, 05 2020.
[20] Mouna Karoui, Vincent Berg, and Sylvie Mayrargue. Assessment of
V2X Communications For Enhanced Vulnerable Road Users Safety. 06
2022.
[21] Tongji University Cooperative Automated Transportation (CAT) Lab. C-
v2x direct communications-based tolling: China case study, 08 2022.
[22] Roger Lanctot. A funny thing happened on the way to 5g cars, 03 2021.
[23] Roger Lanctot. C-v2x: Talking cars: Toil trouble, 08 2022.
[24] John Meredith, Patrick Merias, Hanbyul Seo, Deping Liu, and Ying
Peng. Study on lte-based v2x services - ts 36.885, 2015.
[25] Patrick Merias. Evolved universal terrestrial radio access (e-utra);
physical layer procedures - ts 36.213, 12 2021.
[26] Lili Miao, ShangFu Chen, YuLing Hsu, and KaiLung Hua. How does
cv2x help autonomous driving to avoid accidents? Sensors, 22, 2022.
[27] Lili Miao, John Virtusio, and KaiLung Hua. Pc5based cellularv2x
evolution and deployment. Sensors, 21:843, 01 2021.
[28] Jim Misener. C-v2x delivers outstanding performance for automotive
safety, 11 2020.
[29] Mujahid Muhammad, Paul Kearney, Adel Aneiba, and Andreas Kunz.
Analysis of Security Overhead in Broadcast V2V Communications, pages
251–263. 08 2019.
[30] Mujahid Muhammad, Paul Kearney, Adel Aneiba, and Andreas Kunz.
Efficient Distribution of Key Chain Commitments for Broadcast Authen-
tication in V2V Communications. 11 2020.
[31] Husam Muslim and Jacobo AntonaMakoshi. A review of vehicletovul-
nerable road user collisions on limitedaccess highways to support the
development of automated vehicle safety assessments. Safety, 8, 2022.
[32] Society of Automotive Engineers. J3016b: Taxonomy and definitions for
terms related to driving automation systems for on-road motor vehicles
- sae international, 2018.
[33] World Health Organization. Road traffic injuries, 06 2022.
[34] Apostolos Papathanassiou, Alexey Khoryaev, Next Generation, In-
tel Client Standards, Internet of Things Businesses, Systems Architec-
ture Group (CISA), and Intel Corporation. Cellular v2x as the essential
enabler of superior global connected transportation services — cellular
v2x - ieee future networks, 06 2017.
[35] Qualcomm. Snapdragon auto 5g modem-rf — qualcomm.
[36] Ibrahim Rashdan, Fabian , Stephan Sand, Thomas Jost, and Giuseppe
Caire. Measurementbased geometrical characterisation of the vehicle-
tovulnerableroaduser communication channel. IET Microw. Antennas
Propag., 14:1700–1710, 2020.
[37] Natasa Trkulja, David Starobinski, and Randall A Berry. Denial-of-
service attacks on c-v2x networks. CoRR, abs/2010.13725, 2020.
[38] Mariana Vilac¸a, N´elia Silva, and Margarida C Coelho. Statistical
analysis of the occurrence and severity of crashes involving vulnerable
road users. 20th EURO Working Group on Transportation Meeting,
EWGT 2017, 46 September 2017, Budapest, Hungary, 27:1113–1120,
2017.
[39] Wireless World. Difference between small scale fading and large scale
fading.
[40] T. Yorozu, M Hirano, K Oka, and Y Tagawa. Electron spectroscopy
studies on magnetooptical media and plastic substrate interface. IEEE
Translation Journal on Magnetics in Japan, 2:740–741, 0.