

How Personal Security Relates to Business Cyber Resilience  

Group 6 

Ben Rader, Paxson Von Kerens, Michael Quinones 

12/13/2022 

Dr. Connie Justice 

Purdue University 

   

Executive Summary 

There exists ample research on how a business can secure its information systems 

operations and ultimately its purpose by following various frameworks, complying with 

regulations, hiring cybersecurity personnel, and spending money on various solutions. However, 

all these strategies rely on the work done by one team in a business. For a business to be 

resilient, it must be able to withstand cyber-attacks and recover from them efficiently. Reaching 

cyber resilience as a business is difficult to do with a small team without expensive technology. 

Every problem in a business that involves information technology may have a necessity for cyber 

security simply because there are individuals who will misuse IT systems. Therefore, everyone 

in the business should solve their problems with a bit of security in mind. A lot of the 

cybersecurity risks that make up these issues revolve around common recommendations and 

habits. If a business can get its employees to think about security more and use it daily, then all 

the people, processes, and technology in a business can benefit. The question that this research 

solves is whether personal security, like using a password manager, reduces the cyber risks in a 

business. Research was constrained to the 4Rs framework (robustness, redundancy, 

resourcefulness, and rapidity) and the PPT model (people, processes, technology). If effective 

recommendations could be found even with such a constrained framework, then personal 

security is important. Thorough research used numerous resources, reports, and statistics to show 

the value of simple habits or adopting new workflows such as using knowledge management 

software. Recommendations are given along with research evidence. Finally, a basic security 

education training and awareness program is presented to motivate employees to adopt the 

mentioned personal security habits.  

Keywords: Cybersecurity, Cyber Resilience, Personal Security, Robustness, 

Resourcefulness, Redundancy, Rapidity 

  
 Introduction 

Many organizations focus on vulnerability and risk management processes and tools to 

mitigate data breaches that would cause millions of dollars in damage. Organizations own so 

many different types of assets that potentially could be exploited and manipulated, which leads 

high level management to ask the question, what asset should we start with? Many executive 

officers of an organization could give reasons to start with their departments assets, but focusing 

on one specific department leaves other parts of the organization vulnerable. This leads into the 

correct answer for high level management, which is starting with the most valuable and 

vulnerable asset an organization owns, their employees. Researchers from Stanford University 

found that approximately 88 percent of all data breaches are caused by an employee mistake. 

Human error is still very much the driving force behind an overwhelming majority of 

cybersecurity problems [60].  While people seem to be the weakest link in overall operational 

security there is room to improve and create an ever growing environment of learning and 

communication for employees to become more resilient and aware of activities that might create 

vulnerabilities in their personal and work lives.  

Organizations understand that it isn’t if but when a data breach will occur and when it 

does it is important to have a resilient environment, so operations can bounce back from any 

affected downtime. Beginning at the individual level for awareness training is a great starting 

point for high-level management. Operational and IT (Information Technology) security starts 

with the employees, and resilience is part of the overarching security of the organization. When 

planning out a resilient process, there are four main points to focus on, which are Robustness, 

Redundancy, Resourcefulness, and Rapidity. Implementing these four main concepts at the 

individual level will help employees become more resilient and secure.  

The hard part for most organizations is creating content that is relatable to the interests of 

their employees. A study showed that Understanding the learners’ motivations, habits, and goals 

is key to creating personalized journeys. More relatable training can assist with employees’ 

retention of the information being presented. Learners immersed in an environment tailored to 

their individual interests remembered 30% more data and scored 20% higher on tests [31]. By 

creating content that relates to individual personal security, an organization can become more 

resilient 20-30% quicker than other organizations that stick to a strict corporate security 

awareness program. An organization can create a culture that encourages its employees to 

become more secure in their personal and work lives. By focusing on the four R’s while planning 

security awareness for an organization’s people, processes, and technologies, the outcomes 

would be tailored towards resiliency. Throughout the rest of the paper, there will be discussions 

and recommendations on how organizations can counter the lack of security awareness at the 

individual level and how personalized training could assist in a more resilient and aware 

organization.  
 Problem Statement 

There is a lack of understanding on how an organization’s overall cyber resiliency 

posture is affected by its employees’ personal security hygiene, and methods for evaluating this 

relationship have not been investigated. Moreover, it is unclear which personal security 

recommendations should be provided to individuals on the basis of improving their business’s 

cyber resilience. 
 Background 

Businesses and Cyber Attacks 

Cybersecurity has typically been seen as a cost center for executives, product developers, 

and various areas of work in business. Although this perception may be changing, businesses are 

still not enabling security at the roots of their solutions. From a sociological and technological 

view, society is continuously growing in cyberspace. The problem is that there are conflicting 

interests between those that use the internet for what we design it to do and those that exploit 

such systems for their own means.  As the internet and its utility grow, this game of interests 

becomes exponentially riskier for both parties. Businesses use technology and the internet to 

create powerful and complex answers to our seemingly endless quandaries, and bad actors 

repurpose those systems to get what they want. Ultimately this causes a business to fail in the 

very thing it set out to do. In other words, cybersecurity is not a cost center but merely a 

necessary part of the solution.  

Businesses without cybersecurity in their people, processes, or their controls suffer costly 

losses.  High-quality research from the Ponemon Institute over 550 companies shows that 

organizations with investment in cybersecurity lose much less during a breach than those without 

it. For instance, breaches with an appointed CISO lost ~145 thousand dollars less on average. 

Granted, the average breach cost is around 3.5 million dollars. Another finding shows that 

artificial intelligence platforms for security save the most during breaches with ~300 thousand 

dollars less on average. However, in terms of cost-benefit, one could argue that employee 

training, which saved ~250 thousand dollars on average, is the most valuable key factor in 

lowering the cost of a breach [1]. Evidently, a company does not need to spend millions on 

security tool vendors to train employees. In another study from 2019 by the Ponemon Institute, it 

was found that most companies spend around 18.4 million annually on cybersecurity, and despite 

that fact 53 percent of those companies don’t know if the controls they have implemented are 

working. Moreover, 63 percent of those 577 companies had experienced times where they 

reported a tool blocking an attack when the attack had actually persisted without interruption.  

Even worse, only 39 percent of these companies stated they were utilizing the full potential of 

their security tools [2]. The study does not state the average annual budgets of these 

organizations, but regardless the results say something about the nature of defending an 

organization and how a business uses its resources to do so.  

Cybersecurity can be expensive, but maybe that is an issue of approach and not resources. 

Cybersecurity has somewhat been normalized to information technology, an uncountable amount 

of acronyms, and the responsibility seems to have been placed on IT. However, one could argue 

that everyone should have a part in the cybersecurity solutions of internet-based businesses. 

After all, most midsize enterprise IT budgets are limited to 4.7% of the company’s total revenue 

[3]. Most don’t have the resources to cover all their bases. One must question, though, what the 

likelihood of an attack is. One study has shown that 23.6% of risk-taking organizations have 

incurred more than six cybersecurity breaches [4]. As the industry saying goes, it is not a matter 

of if but a matter of when. Businesses will take hits, and society needs problem-solvers working 

on these critical issues and not avoiding them.  

On the other hand, avoiding cybersecurity altogether or at least transferring the risk is 

another option. In other words, cyber insurance could be the answer. Cyber insurance is a market 

that is still maturing, but as of 2021, S&P Market Intelligence estimated that the premiums had 

increased by 74% from the previous year to almost 5 billion dollars. Despite loss ratios 

dramatically increasing during Covid-19, the insurers are evaluating the risk more accurately the 

past two years. Unfortunately, cyber insurance has its fatal flaws. It tends to have numerous 

stipulations and only covers some cyber risks [5]. So, shifting the responsibility does not seem to 

fully address common incidents. If organizations want to secure their cyberspace, then it is 

necessary to pick solutions that have a good cost-benefit value, are easy to integrate into the 

organization, pragmatically lend to maximizing cyber resiliency, and will ultimately help the 

business.  From the available research, it appears that tackling security with an unorthodox 

approach at the level of the individual may give businesses an advantage. 

 

Personal Security 

Norton defines personal cybersecurity as the techniques and best practices used to protect 

your privacy, data, and devices from unauthorized access and malicious cyberattacks [7]. 

Personal cybersecurity is broken down into three pillars: online privacy, data protection, and 

device security. Online privacy is the ability to control what information a person shares online, 

and more specifically, information pertaining to their identity. Data protection is the practice of 

securing the data you store on your various endpoints. Lastly, device security is the protection of 

your IoT devices and personal computers, and other personal devices. Experian reported that 

identity theft complaints topped the list of fraud reports that the FTC received in 2021, totaling 

1,434,695 complaints. ID theft made up ~24% of the 5,883,409 reports of fraud, identity theft, 

and other complaints [6]. Personal information such as credit cards, social security numbers, and 

dates of birth are but a few things that can be sold on the dark web. Malicious actors are always 

on the hunt for an easy target to expose. What if these victims can be exploited to obtain 

proprietary company information? Moreover, what if such information can easily be leveraged in 

a more high-dollar attack? 

An organization’s security and well-being do not start nor end at the property line of its 

buildings. The organization should focus on its most vulnerable and valuable assets, its people. 

In the people-process-technology triad, human error is the top reason for breaches, accounting 

for 70% of successful attacks, a Cyberinc survey reveals. The next biggest cause is vulnerability 

management through patches and upgrades, accounting for just 14% of successful attacks [8]. 

This raises questions about organizational practices. Are they properly training their employees, 

are bad habits hard to break, or is it simply that people are just easier to manipulate? It is an area 

that requires further investigation. It is a known fact that employees continuously walk through 

the battlefield of social engineering, whether on company grounds, enroute to the coffee shop, or 

relaxing at home. So, when does cybersecurity turn off for them? BBC News published an article 

stating that nearly two in five (39%) admitted that their cyber-security practices at home were 

less thorough than those practiced in the office, with half admitting that this is a result of feeling 

less scrutinized by their IT departments now, than prior to Covid [9]. Would companies decrease 

their attack surface if they promoted security as a lifestyle among their workforce instead of just 

cyber awareness? The gap between personal security and workplace security is something this 

research paper attempts to close. 
 Robustness 

Introduction 

Robustness is defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in 

section 800-137A as the ability of an information assurance (IA) entity to operate correctly and 

reliably across a wide range of operational conditions and to fail gracefully outside of that 

operational range [10]. As an organization introduces robustness into its Business Continuity 

Plan (BCP), it is important to incorporate people’s understanding and processes in place to 

ensure graceful failures and grasp the abilities of the technology. Implementing robustness in a 

BCP starts with the concepts of people, process, and technology (PPT). 

People 
People are the main priority when planning a cybersecurity awareness program 

throughout an organization. When incorporating robustness into an organization’s cybersecurity 

awareness program, the concept of zero trust must be accounted for. Trusting but verifying the 

actions taken by employees is important since people are the weakest link when it comes to 

cybersecurity. Training how zero trust architectures can build efficiency in the workforce, while 

securely segmenting data can lead to showing employees how becoming reliable can make their 

lives easier. Organizations could give incentives to their employees to continue zero trust 

methods in their personal lives to keep them alert, like including a “Bring Your Own Device” 

(BYOD) policy or extra days of vacation for employees who pass security training on the first 

attempt. Research from CyberTalk.org shows that 90% of organizations state that advancing 

Zero Trust represents one of their top three IT security priorities, and Zero Trust can reduce the 

cost of a data breach by roughly $1.76 million [11]. Moving towards remote work and BYOD 

policies will continue the need for zero-trust architectures to be implemented.  

Arguably, people are the hardest part of the cyber robustness equation. Socio-technical 

systems like IT businesses, such as the ones we have today, are vaster and more complex than 

ever. BYOD policies and encouraging employees to use “zero trust” is important. Unfortunately, 

these practices usually don’t carry over to the personal sphere. Despite this dilemma, there are a 

lot of ways that individuals can improve the robustness of people, in terms of cyber resilience, at 

their organization. In other words, there are personal security practices that lead to increased 

availability of people within a business – even during a cyber-attack.  

The availability of teams and IT human resources during an attack are generally affected 

by numerous variables. However, there is one hygiene practice that we have statistical and 

anecdotal evidence for – the practice of segmenting personal and corporate email account usage 

on applications and systems. During an attack, telemetry is essential. If you aren’t logging it, 

then it doesn’t exist. In cases where an attack chain involves a personal email, forensics and 

incident response become drastically more difficult, and IT personnel and teams can quickly 

become unavailable. The cybersecurity team may even have to go to external parties and legal 

teams and take on long, expensive processes to obtain data that is crucial during an investigation. 

One study from 2020 explained another situation with personal email account usage related to 

data exfiltration – “IT Departments are generally unaware of, or too busy, to monitor and track 

employee email activity when work emails are forwarded to personal accounts.“ 

There can be no denying that monitoring all employee email behavior is an arduous task 

for IT and compliance teams to undertake. ”Deciphering data exfiltration within email logs is 

like finding a needle in a haystack. [12]” In general, doing so will exponentially increase an 

organization’s attack surface and unnecessarily expose data to external parties that don’t need it 

and could use it for nefarious means. There is limited research on this subject, but a 2017 survey 

showed that 1 in 4 people use a work email address as a login for a personal account, and 16% of 

respondents forward work emails to their private email accounts [13].  

Another anecdote given during our research explained how a user had downloaded 

malware to their corporate workstation from a phishing email in a personal email account. If the 

phishing email had gone to a corporate account, one of the many email security tools they had on 

those accounts would’ve flagged or blocked it. In reaction, the organization had to block all 

email domains that weren’t part of the organization simply due to the severity of these incidents. 

Organizations cannot defend what they don’t have visibility of. The fact is that, on average, a 

person sends and receives 121 business emails per day, and in 2019 1.2% of all email messages 

were potentially malicious [14]. Utilizing a password manager can also make it easier for users 

to manage these accounts and personal and business. Doing so can potentially save the user more 

time and the organization more human resources during a cyber-attack. 

Processes 

A robust process is resistant to interruptions and reliable during an attack. The goal for 

every organization is to create an environment that is 99.9999% available, which comes out to 

only 31 seconds of interruption during a year, but this is only sometimes achievable. When 

incidents occur, the robustness of an environment is truly tested. Often, business processes for 

solving various problems, aren’t utilizing collaboration with other departments as much as they 

should. For cyber resilience, this issue is compounded because of the multi-disciplinary and 

somewhat normalized nature of the cybersecurity problem domain. This can create bottlenecks, 

especially during an attack when timely coordination and innovative collaboration are key to the 

availability and persistence of certain business processes and SOPs (standard operating 

procedures). Necessary solutions will greatly differ for cyber from business to business. 

Awareness that derives from personal security can drastically lend to cross-departmental 

collaboration and coordination, acceleration, and automation of various business processes. One 

way to achieve this is to utilize a personal knowledge management platform. After using one for 

a while, one might find that they are so great at centralizing knowledge that they may become 

indispensable in one’s workflow. Consequently, an individual may convince management 

(especially if they are the management) to use a knowledge management platform as a repository 

for organizational knowledge. As a side note, the phrases knowledge base and knowledge 

management system (KMS) are used interchangeably, but they tend to describe different things. 

“Knowledge management (KM) is a tool to tackle cybersecurity issues, provided it emphasizes 

on the interrelated social, organizational, and technological factors involved in cybersecurity 

[15].” Knowledge bases can include this, but they usually refer to customer-facing help websites 

and can include things like a FAQ section. Centralizing business knowledge into one place can 

help various departments, including cybersecurity, to design better processes that are robust 

enough to be available during cyber-attacks.  

Researchers looking at KMS use in organizations presented the “knowledge engineering 

process as the producer of knowledge assets that makes a better business process. [16].” 

Collaborating with other departments via a knowledge management platform can make 

organizations more equipped during a cyber-attack by simplifying the overall design of a 

process. This is especially true during attacks where the security team must scramble to find 

certain points of data in an organization that would’ve been previously understood or easily 

discovered had there been more cross-departmental collaboration. A knowledge management 

system is a way for organizations to motivate the creation of innovative solutions. One study on 

knowledge sharing showed that organizational innovation performance increased with 

knowledge outbound sharing (sharing without inquiry), absorptive capacity (capacity to retain 

knowledge in distillable forms), and individual creativity [17]. In other words, innovation can be 

improved if a business creates a culture of sharing knowledge, keeping that knowledge in a 

digestible format, and allowing people to be creative in their engineering of the problem. A 

knowledge management system gets around obvious human limits of memory (absorptive 

capacity). If it is done correctly in an organization, the knowledge is also taxonomized or 

categorized in such a way that it is easier to navigate and more digestible. Employees can share 

without being asked to do so by simply adding to the system, which is directly correlated with 

innovation performance. All of this can be established because one individual decides to take a 

chance with a personal knowledge management system. More demand for use of these systems 

in a corporate setting will undoubtedly help out organizations in the future. 

Technology 

  IT infrastructure, applications, and various systems used by networking, development, 

marketing, cybersecurity, and so many other departments must be up during an attack.  Some 

systems cannot be down for more than a few hours, or the business loses millions. At first 

glance, this would seem like the responsibility of the organization. However, that is another 

debate. The question is whether the user can help or do anything about it.  

There are, arguably, a couple of ways the user can lend to IT system availability which 

can persist during an attack. Most IT systems are delicate and fragile to version changes, bugs, 

and logical errors.  Sometimes all it takes is to miss an update to drop a business’s whole system. 

If users are aware of this and update apps and the tech they use when they have the option, then a 

lot of system availability can be protected. A study from the Ponemon Institute surveyed nearly 

3,000 IT security professionals over the question of whether an attack they experienced occurred 

because of an unpatched vulnerability that could’ve been prevented.  Around 60% of the 3,000 

respondents from 2018 and 2019 said that one or more of their breaches could’ve prevented with 

an available patch for the known vulnerability. Additionally, 74% of companies cannot patch 

faster because they need more staff to do so [18, 19]. Statistics from Automox showed that 81% 

of the 560 IT and security professionals which they surveyed were breached in the past 2 years, 

with root causes of the breach being missing OS patches (30%), missing application patches 

(28%), and OS misconfiguration (27%). Phishing was the most common with 36% [20]. The 

point is that most of them could’ve been fixed with updates or patches, which means that cyber 

needs a behavioral change across the organization. The obvious recommendation would be to 

update your apps, devices, and systems whenever possible and automate this if it is doable. 

Unfortunately, this can quickly become a burden. The superior recommendation for personal 

security hygiene would be to do a hard, factory, or complete reset of your systems once or twice 

a year. This will not only automatically put security updates into your systems, but it will also 

make those IT systems more available. Doing so with your devices tends to speed up their 

operation too. In terms of cyber resilience and robustness, updating, patching, or simply resetting 

your systems here and there will greatly increase the availability of the systems you need when 

you need them in a cyber-attack.  

Secondly, users often need to be made aware of the settings and configurations of the 

applications and systems they use, IT staff cannot account for all the caveats of these 

configurations, and companies need to predict how users will utilize their applications. In one 

survey relating to checking security and privacy settings, out of 1,391 respondents, 9% check 

security or privacy settings after every usage, 32% multiple times per year, 12% once per year, 

11% after registration, and the rest do not at all. That means that about half never check the 

privacy or security settings of apps. 5% of the respondents didn’t know what security settings 

even were, and this study was based in Germany where citizens are familiar with the GDPR 

(General Data Protection Regulation) [21]. Another study on online social networks (OSNs) 

showed that “80% of users neither check their OSNs nor know about the privacy of their profile 

whether they have been offered default privacy settings or adequate privacy that meets the 

expected level” [22]. Social network settings usually won’t create an availability issue for IT 

applications in a business. However, this sort of behavior goes to show that users have too much 

trust in the applications which they use daily. Most people likely think that these applications are 

plug’n’play or that the time to go through settings outweighs the benefits. This is a much harder 

behavior to change because it requires that the user exercises prudence. Therefore, motivating 

users to read documentation, look for certain sections (especially IAM, users, and accounts 

settings), and research configurations and settings for things they use can reduce the chance of 

apps causing business-wide system issues that are the result of settings choices or from 

accidentally locking out important users from a system during an attack. In general, users can do 

a lot by putting in the effort to understand the apps and systems that they use daily and by 

knowing when to put in the time and when not to. Our recommendation would be to use the 

“break things”, hacker mentality with personal applications and apply what you learn about apps 

to the systems you use at work. 
 Redundancy 

Introduction 

Redundancy refers to the extent to which systems, system elements, or other units are 

substitutable, that is, capable of satisfying functional requirements if significant degradation or 

loss of functionality occurs [34]. This idea can apply to engineering and physical design, but it 

very much applies to cyber resilience. Whereas robustness refers to the ability of systems to 

withstand disasters, redundancy is all about if that system can be substituted for another. In an IT 

or cyber socio-technical component of a business, we will look at the degree to which a business 

can substitute people, processes, and technologies around a cyber-attack and how the personal 

security hygiene of an individual can create conditions for better redundancy. 

People 
The redundancy of an organization’s people may seem unrelated to personal security 

hygiene. However, personal security involves more than methods, strategy, and tactics 

normalized to the cybersecurity industry. As has been mentioned already in this paper, 

cybersecurity is a multi-disciplinary practice. Therefore, individuals need more than 

cybersecurity knowledge and behavior to help our business resilience.  

In the ‘Robustness’ section, we showed how knowledge management can make processes 

more robust and resistant during cyber-attacks. Truthfully, knowledge management is a powerful 

skill to have, and its benefits reach into many areas of business security and resilience posture. In 

this case, developing a personal knowledge management workflow can also make it easier to 

substitute people in a business during a cyber-attack. In other words, documentation, note-taking, 

and categorization or building a taxonomy of that knowledge can increase the redundancy of 

people in an organization. It gives the business the ability to mobilize the workforce during an 

attack and the ability to divvy out processes to the people that need them. For example, a SOC 

analyst may need someone to watch the SIEM (security information and event management 

system) while they do some digital forensics. Only 21% of people in a business communicate 

without using copious amounts of jargon and terminology that is too specific [23]. On top of that, 

data from Panopto shows that "42% of valuable company knowledge is unique to the individual 

employee [27]." If an employee needs to quickly hand off a process to someone else and 

everyone’s hair is already on fire because there’s a cyber-attack, then it will be a chaotic 

situation. Moreover, if an employee that handles work that is crucial during an attack recently 

left, then 42% of their work will have practically gone into the ether. It’s no coincidence that 

NIST’s Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity (NICE) has a section about knowledge 

management and this very issue [24, 25]. Knowledge management saves the organization time 

and puts people’s efforts where they need them the most during a cyber-attack.  

Processes 

Process redundancy starts with individuals who play a role in the process. Before a 

process is created, it is thought of and created by people. Intangible ideas and thoughts are added 

to a knowledge base for an organization to use. When ransomware or another type of attack that 

justifies a need for a disaster recovery process arises, properly initiating the processes to mitigate 

the attack will be crucial for a successful recovery. Redundant processes for the same or similar 

event will help people choose from multiple courses of action. Sometimes software that is used 

by customers can be improperly designed and lack redundant processes to fix vulnerabilities that 

get exploited due to insecure programming practices.  The inner platform effect is an event that 

can occur in an organization when software that is used by a customer is too customizable. Over 

time this inner platform effect slowly builds until it is too late to correct the customizable site. 

The inner platform effect is defined by Alex Papadimoulis on his blog The Daily WTF in 2006 

as a result of designing a system to be so customizable that it ends up becoming a poor replica of 

the platform it was designed with. This "customization" of this dynamic inner platform becomes 

so complicated that only a programmer (and not the end-user) is able to modify it [26]. When an 

organization falls into an inner platform effect situation, the individual employee and customer 

cannot use the data being shared with them. Training at an individual level on how to organize 

and navigate problem and knowledge domains would be of interest to an organization to help the 

redundancy of their processes and mitigate the possibilities of inner platform effect. In doing so, 

an individual would be able to groom their own personal security hygiene by being aware of the 

issues that can occur when processes are not properly documented and tools that are too 

customizable continue to grow without being audited.   

Technology 
 
 Redundancy is crucial with technology in businesses these days. It isn’t obvious how 

applying personal security to one’s life can improve the ability of a business to substitute its 

technologies. However, technology also includes data within it. Consequently, the idea of data 

recovery and disaster recovery and how that relates to personal backups comes into play. 

Although the adoption rate has decreased since 2008, personal backup usage is at 11% as of 

2021 [28]. People still see the value of backing up their data, whether family photos or a 

computer hard drive. This can sometimes take some getting used to if you’re using a more 

advanced cloud service, a NAS (network-attached storage) device, or another self-hosted option. 

However, the general mentality remains to back up and save your data and technology. This can 

even apply more basically to “ctrl-s’ing” your documents or other media when you are editing 

the files for a prolonged period. In cybersecurity, backups refer to disaster recovery and business 

continuity. More than ever, this threat manifests itself as ransomware. Ransomware is some form 

of malware that encrypts your data and holds it for ransom till the money is given to the 

attackers. The average cost of such an attack sits at $4.54 million as of 2022 with the Ponemon 

Institute study. Not to mention, 8% of the attacks they found data on were ransomware attacks 

[1]. The problem shows itself when you look at the data restoration rates of these ransomware 

attacks. It seems that only 33% of companies avoid ransoms by restoring from backups [29]. 

This happens even when companies have backups because sometimes it is too expensive to 

mobilize those backups in a short time and cheaper to pay the ransom. We hypothesize that 

utilizing personal backups will give individuals the right perspective on backup processes, and it 

will allow them to utilize them or at least go to the right people to have them setup when they are 

necessary to the organization’s resilience. 

Resourcefulness 

Introduction 

  Resourcefulness refers to “the ability to diagnose and prioritize problems and to initiate 

solutions by identifying and mobilizing material, monetary, informational, technological, and 

human resources [34].” Many will see this attribute as related to management and human 

resources processes, and it is. However, all problems are affected by the resourcefulness of 

various components of the business. To improve business decision-making, an organization must 

think about how it can give more flexibility and utility to its people, processes, and technologies, 

and this goes for all parts of the business. Such an undertaking can paradoxically have the issue 

of lacking resources. Therefore, the next place to look would be at the individual level, and in 

this case, personal security hygiene and practices can improve the resourcefulness of these 

business components. 

People 
Most people understand that the social aspects of businesses are quite complex, and it can 

be hard to quantify and calculate interactions between various groups, departments, and 

individuals in an organization. During an attack, the issue of not knowing whom to contact or 

what to do becomes very apparent, and common bureaucratic bottlenecks exist in every business. 

For2fi a company that specializes in cybersecurity training states “Having workers know what to 

do to prevent or mitigate an attack is essential” [47]. Business communication and visibility are 

number one in cyber. If you don’t know what resources you have or how to get them, the 

business might as well get cyber-ransomed for all it is worth.  

Typing up “chain of command” for a search query will show results like “Respect for 

chain-of-command is essential for the smooth growth, prosperity and effective management of 

an organization. If it works in the Army, it will prove invaluable in your business structure. [36]” 

The idea of a chain of command is a somewhat controversial topic in business. This debate exists 

because not all businesses need a chain of command, but many benefit from the hierarchical 

structure it offers, like in the case of the army. On the other hand, certain domains of the 

software industry work better with an open communication structure [35]. As explained in 

previous sections, a knowledge management system or simple policies can greatly improve 

communication, but such a system assumes adoption and development across departments. 

Alternatively, there are personal security-related practices on the individual level that can aid this 

communication and resourcefulness issue for people during incidents like cyber-attacks. 

Specifically, OSINT, or “Open-Source Intelligence,” can be a tool for individuals in an 

organization. 

Literature, popular opinion, common sense, and general intuition suggest that people 

could do better at keeping their information private [21, 22]. Luckily, this can be an opportunity 

for resilience and resource visibility and not just a tool for hackers. In layman’s terms, “OSINT 

is publicly produced and publicly available data that can be collected and shared without 

breaking laws or policies. [37]” Personal security is more than the normalized topic of 

cybersecurity, and that is why OSINT should be included as a piece of it. Part of securing one’s 

personal life is having the ability and motivation to investigate entities that affect their goals. 

Most OSINT practitioners haven’t received training in OSINT techniques or the risks involved 

with conducting investigations, so personally doing OSINT should require some effort. After all, 

OSINT, again, is NOT just a security thing. Investigation and research are a part of every 

problem-solving journey. Outside the workplace, personal security-focused OSINT should 

prioritize risk reduction and maximize resource visibility. 

Pragmatically, this means using more than simple Google searches to figure out what 

your threats are.  OSINT increases the resourcefulness of people in a business setting by 

expanding employee visibility within an organization. Studies including OSINT in education 

show that participants gain ample awareness about the accessibility of public information and 

malicious uses with such information [38]. Google “dorking” is one way to use Google for 

OSINT purposes, but there is a myriad of unorthodox and unconsidered techniques for obtaining 

publicly available information.  

Regardless of how public information about people, places, or things is obtained, there 

are two immediate benefits for a business when individuals conduct personal OSINT 

investigations. For one, OSINT increases awareness about public exposure of personal 

information for people. Secondly, OSINT reinforces habits and techniques that can be leveraged 

for resource visibility in an organization. In one study with 852 respondents and 1,947 instances 

of security and privacy behavior changes, 39% of the behavioral triggers were social. Moreover, 

socially triggered behaviors were 4 times more likely to be shared with other people. The 

motivation for this sharing was, by far, one of concern for others’ security and privacy welfare 

[39]. In other words, if people are concerned enough about public exposure of their data, then 

doing OSINT should create a social domino effect that increases not only resource visibility 

during incidents but also general awareness. A 2022 Public Affairs study of over 4,000 adults 

from various U.S. states shows that 84% of people are somewhat concerned about the safety and 

privacy of the personal data that they provide on the internet [40]. In terms of resource visibility 

during an incident, employees are more likely to use techniques learned from OSINT 

investigations to figure out the organization hierarchy, roles, and general information necessary 

for their problem. Therefore, personal OSINT habits and behaviors are a great benefit to the 

modern user, and such habits positively impact the resourcefulness of people within an 

organization. 

Processes 

Creating an environment that encourages problem-solving can be developed into an 

organizational process for all employees. By teaching individuals how to use resources and 

troubleshoot issues, an organization can mature their security awareness along with teaching 

individuals skills that they can use in their personal lives to make educated decisions and find a 

solution to their problems. An individual would be able to gain a fundamental understanding of 

security through training and webinars and then move onto a logical thought process to step-by-

step troubleshoot work-related or personal-related issues [30]. When an individual is given the 

right training, they can become more resourceful in their personal lives. A resourceful person 

knows how to reach out for help and time manage, which is a skill that can always be improved. 

Good starting points for individuals to problem solve is to ask questions like what the actual 

problem is or who is experiencing this problem. Put simply, asking the 5 W’s (When, Where, 

Why, What, Who) can be the beginning steps to helping an individual practice logical thought 

processes when problem-solving an issue, which in turn helps them become more resourceful 

and aware of something that might be a security vulnerability [30]. 

Possible ways to help employees learn and exercise logical problem-solving processes on 

their own would be to send out short daily or weekly security blogs that explain questions that 

anyone can think of to help start their problem-solving process or interesting podcasts to listen to 

while driving or simple trivia about best practices for being secure while using social media 

platforms. An effective way to deliver short, targeted pieces of content to learners without 

overwhelming them is known as microlearning [31]. This approach to learning has caught 

traction in the workforce. Through more research, the practice of microlearning through mind 

maps or short training is positively impacting the way people retain information and ultimately 

helping individuals become more resourceful. A study from the Multimedia Tools and 

Applications International Journal concluded that short-term memory could only manage around 

four elements at a time. The same study surveyed learning professionals about their experience 

of microlearning and found that 71% see its potential to increase knowledge retention, and nearly 

68% believe it can drive engagement [32]. Another term for these sorts of personal security-

related activities would be personal threat intelligence. Cybersecurity media, podcasts, news, and 

micro-learning sessions are effective ways to get prioritized information about the modern threat 

environment which can be retained and utilized for the resourcefulness of various processes in a 

business. The common user can execute these simple tasks once every couple of weeks, and the 

business can benefit. This comes down to knowing what’s going on and what threats or 

opportunities exist. 

Technology 

An individual's resourcefulness depends on the person’s awareness and understanding of 

how to spot vulnerabilities and what they might look like. Hardening a device at the individual’s 

level helps secure an environment and allows individuals to better understand why certain 

settings should be selected on their devices. Organizations can send guidelines or 

recommendations to employees to help harden their personal devices to better secure them from 

external threats. By doing this, individuals can become aware of the tools to safely secure their 

personal information. Usually, these tools are free or not tools at all, like deactivating Bluetooth 

capabilities when it is not needed, using antivirus, host intrusion detection systems, and data loss 

prevention. This leads to a more resourceful person and ultimately helps the organization’s 

security posture [33]. These hardening practices are great for organizations, but how can 

individuals change personal practices to have the same impact? 

During an attack, incident, or breach, time is vital. As of 2022, the average data breach 

takes around 277 days to identify and contain [19]. By every metric and according to most, if not 

all, of the major security reports, two security practices reduce the possibility, cost, and time of a 

data breach – password management and multi-factor authentication [19, 43, 44, 45]. Some of 

the most frequent and costly attacks of business email compromise and stolen or compromised 

credentials can be avoided using a combination of multi-factor authentication (MFA) and 

password management. Additionally, both attacks take the longest average time to identify and 

contain [19,42]. According to another popular study, 99.9% of incidents involved times where 

multi-factor authentication was not being utilized with the attacked component [41]. Data from 

IBM’s X-Force Intelligence team also suggested that attackers were pivoting to new targets 

during 2021 because more U.S. companies started using MFA in their operations [43]. Verizon’s 

top recommendation for companies to not become targets of an attack is to use two-factor 

authentication, their second is to not reuse or share passwords, and their third is to use a 

password manager! Verizon’s top 3 recommendations to avoid attacks were around the idea of 

authentication methods and credential management [44]. Password management and MFA are 

quite cost-effective in avoiding losses from data breaches, so why not start with the individual?  

Credential management is something that anyone can do. Most password managers are 

quite easy to install, and MFA is also straightforward to set up. Another survey from the 

Ponemon Institute, which partnered with Yubico (a 2FA physical key vendor), showed that only 

36% of IT security respondents say their organizations use a password manager, and 46% said 

that email accounts are secured with 2FA. Only 29% of individual respondents said that they 

changed how they manage passwords by using a password manager. Most respondents said they 

use “stronger passwords.” Lack of password manager usage is a slippery slope to credential and 

account compromise, and such data only refers to issues with password manager adoption. When 

looking solely at personal account usage with 2FA (two-factor authentication), only 40% of IT 

users and 36% of regular users are utilizing 2FA on any of their personal accounts. Of these 

same users, 50% and 54%, respectively, are reusing passwords across those personal accounts. 

To top it off, at best, only around 50% of the users who use 2FA are securing their email 

accounts. So, only about 18% of the ~2,500 surveyed IT users had their email accounts secured 

with 2FA [46]. Combine this with the relevance of business email compromise and credential 

compromise, and we are left to wonder why people aren’t using password managers and 2FA 

daily. 

  Security.org surveyed individuals about password manager adoption. Findings show that 

most people who use password managers do so because they cannot remember their passwords. 

It also showed that most don’t use password managers because they are not secure (71%) or they 

are not sure that they need one (51%) [45]. In terms of 2FA adoption, the Ponemon study found 

that most organizations don’t use 2FA because “usernames and passwords provide enough 

security” (60%) or two-factor authentication has not been requested (39%) [46]. The evidence 

shows that password managers and 2FA usage for accounts, especially email, improve the 

overall security of the business at a low cost. Additionally, using password managers ironically 

makes people more productive and speeds up workflows. Credential management and multi-

factor authentication should be a part of everyone’s personal security hygiene.  

With individuals that utilize these techniques, a business can rule out certain attack 

vectors during an attack or incident. For example, a security operations team may be deciding to 

put effort during an investigation towards email account logs or endpoints logs. If the team 

knows that the applicable users were utilizing 2FA and password managers, it is much easier to 

rule out credential and account compromise-based attacks. Consequently, they will focus on the 

endpoint and look for evidence or IOCs (indicators of compromise) of malware. Therefore, 

credential management should be a part of every individual’s personal security arsenal. It is a 

low-cost, high-reward method to increase the resourcefulness of technology, such as logging 

systems, IDR, EDR, and other monitoring tools during an attack. In other words, it makes it 

easier for people and technology to work together during an incident and bounce back from it. 

 
 Rapidity 

Introduction  
Rapidity is referred to as “the capacity to restore functionality in a timely way, containing 

losses and avoiding disruptions [48].” Organizations are concerned with operational Return on 

Investment (ROI) and system uptime for customers.  Many see rapidity as an attribute that will 

define how quickly an organization can recover with minimal impact on the overall ROI and 

system uptime. Not only can technical tools and processes help an organization’s rapidity, but 

employees can as well. Training people to be well-rounded and prepared to implement recovery 

procedures will assist an organization’s rapidity rate. It doesn’t stop by only training and 

implementing tools to improve rapidity but by using metrics with qualitative and quantitative 

data that help manage and identify uptime improvements [49]. With this broad range of available 

metrics, it can be hard for an organization to identify a starting point to focus on.  Therefore, it is 

recommended to start at the individual level and furthermore emphasize how the personal 

security hygiene of an individual can improve overall rapidity. 

 

People 

A recommended resource to bridge the gap between cybersecurity in personal and work 

life at the individual level is Security Education Training and Awareness (SETA), which Living 

Labs hosts. It is a platform that allows college students to apply networking, security, database, 

website and application development concepts and techniques learned from prior CIT courses. 

SETA is a program designed to help organizations mitigate the number of security breaches 

caused by human error. This is accomplished by increasing awareness of information security 

policies and helping people apply them during their daily activities to prevent security incidents 

[52]. Utilizing SETA can enhance an organization’s rapidity by positively influencing the lives 

of its employees, allowing them to bridge the risk awareness gap between life at home and work. 

When it comes to incidents and people, awareness is everything. 

Security awareness training doesn’t have to come from formal initiatives. For instance, 

one could introduce password managers and explain how they are not only convenient but also 

add to the security of the organization.  Simply naming off some statistics and making it personal 

could persuade them to utilize them and improve their personal security. Statistically, people 

enjoy password managers because most people can’t remember their passwords [54]. They start 

to understand why their inherent memory capacity problem creates a weakness with all their 

passwords. Subsequently, during an incident, they are more familiar with the risks around 

improper password hygiene. This sort of dynamic goes for all sorts of business security practices. 

However, teaching security is only a job for the security people, so it does not do much for the 

average person. What one may not notice is that all these problems with the rapidity of people 

during an incident revolve around business communication, so attacking that problem may be the 

answer.  

Communication can sometimes become the true limiter in the success of businesses, and 

it slows response to incidents. As mentioned, people use too much jargon [23]. “Kaspersky 

research has found that over two-fifths (42 percent) of UK C-level specialists believe that jargon 

around cybersecurity is the biggest reason for lack of risk understanding at the top of 

organizations [55].” Nonetheless, jargon can sometimes be the only way to describe incidents, 

especially when the business is metaphorically on fire. With more awareness, though, jargon 

isn’t an issue. For the individual, there are many ways to increase awareness, decrease 

misunderstandings of cyber incident jargon, and increase recovery speed during an incident. One 

of the most common terminology misunderstandings are around computer network terms. This 

brings up an obvious solution. Individuals need to secure their home networks, and by doing so, 

they will learn not only the terminology of networking but also some of the difficult concepts 

that are the foundation of most cyber-attacks.  

Home networks tend to be insecure on a large scale. It would not be unreasonable to say 

that most nation-states are using these large-scale weaknesses to their advantage. Moreover, 

although there isn’t data to show that the average Joe is taking losses from home router attacks, 

espionage could be an issue, and there are not many statistics on such issues. A 2020 study from 

a German research group on home router security showed that even some of the more secure 

routers have around 20 critical CVEs (common vulnerability enumeration) and around 350 high-

rated CVEs [56].  In layman’s terms, almost all home routers probably have an easy weakness to 

exploit. Moreover, IoT (Internet of Things) is becoming very common, yet only 98 percent of 

these devices encrypt their traffic [57].  The home user can fix these issues.  

Individuals have various ways to start doing network security, and these methods go from 

dead simple to advanced. We will go over advice that one of the top pentesting firms gives. If 

you aren’t familiar with security at all, then get a device like a “Firewalla” or any firewall device 

with Pfsense on it. This is what we call network monitoring. This is how one can see into their 

home network and have a HUD (heads-up display) of all the network security information, alerts, 

and even some terminology. If you are more confident with information technology, then set up 

Pfsense with some other intrusion detection tools like RITA (Real Intelligence Threat Analytics), 

Suricata, Snort, Zeek, or other tools that can ingest data from Pfsense. Some routers don’t allow 

this sort of setup, though. In that case, one can get fancy and redirect all of the network traffic 

through a personal computer running Linux by following their webcast and setting up security 

alerts that way, or one can simply utilize a “network tap [58].” The gist is that anyone can do 

home network security if they put in an hour of work about once a year. The result is that people 

will have better communication during incidents because they are willing to put in a minimal 

amount of work at home to understand the main issue of infrastructure cyber security…networks. 

The next time they hear the word “malware,” they aren’t at all confused because they have 

security alerts for it on their firewall app for their device at home. 

Process 

The ability to recover in an efficient and timely manner in daily activities is often one fo 

the most important and most valuable tasks to organizations and people.  During hurricane 

season or winter snow storms, people prepare for electrical outages by buying generators and 

stocking up on the necessities in order to recover from the affects as quickly as possible. “In the 

preparation and aftermath of a major natural disaster – the opportunity for fraud exists from 

multiple angles," said Susan Koski, Director and Head of Security & Enterprise Response with 

PNC Bank. While fraud can occur in many ways, two of the most common scams related to 

natural disasters including phishing attacks and counterfeit charities.” [59] Natural or man-made 

disasters occur across the world, and they affect individuals.  Personal security and preparation to 

recover from these types of disasters can help individuals understand the processes and practices 

used in the workforce to recover in a rapid state. By linking the importance of a timely recovery 

at an individual level, people might show more awareness and alertness to possible incidents at 

work.  66 percent of Americans don’t feel fully prepared for natural disasters, which is 221.3 

million US (United States) citizens.  Educating and assisting individuals in their personal 

preparation for disasters and teaching them signs to look for, so disasters can be avoided will 

give organizations better rapidity during any incident, whether natural or unnatural [50].  

It is recommended that a key process in the organization’s Business Continuity Plan 

(BCP) elaborate on the importance of personal security training at the individual level alongside 

the disaster recovery process. The human error factor is the largest security threat to an 

organization while recovering from a natural or man-made disaster. This human error factor 

explains that the threat posed by the likelihood of mistakes made by an organization’s own staff 

could result in the catastrophic loss of all crucial data during normal operations or from a 

recovery point.  Rapidly recovering and restoring functionality to all systems is important, but it 

should also come with accuracy. A system that comes back up in a timely manner but holds a 

vulnerability made by an untrained or unaware employee can cause future data loss and system 

downtime [51]. Connecting daily activities that require rapid recovery, in a personal way, to 

procedures in the workforce can utilize personal habits and actions to better equip a company's 

rapidity.  

The bottom line is that something as simple as disaster preparedness at home can extend 

to good business resilience during a cyber-attack. These habits help more than just cyber 

workers. Disaster preparedness helps human resources, other IT jobs, legal teams, and anyone 

who has a part in the business. A 2017 American Housing Survey showed that only 6 percent of 

Texas households without basements or multiunit structures had a tornado saferoom. This was 

lower than the 11 percent national average. In Florida, 70 percent of households reported having 

an emergency preparedness kit. In California, 30 percent of households with two or more people 

had a communication plan if cellular stopped working, 38 percent had a meeting location, and, 

luckily, 94 percent had emergency vehicles [54]. Some of these states are very prone to natural 

disasters, and yet a lot of households are unprepared in that regard. Risk analysis at home and 

work should be done, which accounts for incidents like these.  

Technology  

Most small businesses, in fact, 40 to 60 percent of them never reopen after a disaster, 

whether from natural or man-made causes. That is one of FEMA’s most startling disaster 

recovery statistics and is important for organizations to consider when evaluating the technical 

tools that help them rebound rapidly from an incident [53]. A good personal security practice to 

keep in mind is to always be aware of the location of vital data or systems. Something as simple 

as redundancy with personal valuables can be vital to rapid recovery after a personal incident. If 

a house is lost, then you shouldn’t lose everything along with that house. Utilizing the cloud and 

creating hard copy backups are daily tools that people use for personal reasons. However, these 

same technologies can be used in disaster recovery programs in an organization. As shown 

earlier in this paper with research at Splunk, most organizations aren’t prepared for ransomware, 

and ransomware is the epitome of a cyber disaster. 71 percent of companies only developed a 

ransomware playbook after an incident, and 66 percent reported paying the criminals, most of 

which did so out-of-pocket and some via cyber insurance [29]. At home, there will be times 

when insurance can cover something, but usually, the benefits of simply preparing properly for 

the incident will vastly outweigh the costs. This all comes down to doing the research, working 

on the problem, and doing due diligence. This is not as easy as some other recommendations for 

cyber resilience, but it is the hard truth. When it comes to technology, people must learn to 

utilize search queries, documentation, knowledge management, and communication in 

innovative ways. In cases where a potential disaster can mess up the technology that runs our 

lives, we need a backup plan. Do this planning annually and bring those planning habits to work 

anytime you work on a problem or make a decision that can affect the overall business.  

SETA Program Design 

Security Training and Awareness Programs are essential to creating a business model that 

includes security. Our background research revealed that the most cost-effective way to reduce 

the cost of a breach is to train employees [1]. Additionally, as shown in the “Resourcefulness-

People” section, socially triggered efforts in security are the ones that are most likely to be 

adopted across the organization [39]. A training and awareness program that is properly 

conducted should be cost-effective and motivate contemplation and social sharing of 

cybersecurity concepts and threats. If employees are more concerned for the security and privacy 

welfare of others, then the program is doing a good job. This is the hardest part of employee 

training, that is, making it not seem like an inconvenience and more of a necessity. Three 

methods are defined in research: superficial triggers of sparks (ads or social proof notifications), 

facilitators (make it look easier), and signals (reminders and calls to action) [39]. We will utilize 

these three tactics to create an effective SETA program.  

People 

  To improve people in an organization, we should use a mix of the methods mentioned 

above and general strategies for building habits. For people, our research shows that we should 

make the training personal or more applicable to what they do. It is crucial for the individual to 

realize the importance of good personal security and how it affects their well-being and the 

operation of the business. Getting leadership involved is the first step in the process. After that, 

social proof notifications and reminders that everyone on a team has done some training should 

be shown. To keep growth and cultivation consistent, training should be in short bursts, personal, 

and memorable. The participants should also walk away with a tool they will be persuaded to 

utilize.  

Process 

  Improving processes in an organization is much more difficult than conducting traditional 

training. To improve processes through SETA, training must be personalized to a team’s 

operations. One easy way to do this is to supply departments or teams with personalized 

recommendations and tools for personal security hygiene, and then tabletop exercises could be 

conducted using these. This may or may not be facilitated by a security professional. This sort of 

training could take place for half an hour. Alternatively, personalized training videos should be 

made that require the participant to install certain tools and upload proof of completion. Such 

training should be intermittent and utilize calls to action, and the process should be 

straightforward to complete. 

Technology 

  To improve the use of technologies in an organization, from personal security habits, the 

organization should use the framework to educate and motivate participants. Firstly, show users 

the value of certain personal security habits when it comes to improving technology utilization in 

the business. Then, show the user resources, techniques, workflows, and skills to not only 

improve personal security but improve how technology is viewed, managed, and found on the 

internet. In a nutshell, show people how to solve problems better with technology, and that 

includes using search engine technology and research technologies to find technological 

solutions.  
 SETA Program Implementation 

Leadership Buy-in 

  This was briefly stated above. However, it cannot be overstated. In a corporate setting, 

leadership buy-in is practically required to have effective training. Employees will only be able 

to put in the work or properly contemplate cybersecurity with the support of their supervisors 

and managers. Roles and responsibilities should be established before starting a SETA program. 

Tabletop Exercises 

  Tabletop exercises can be more personalized than other sorts of training. A game like 

“Backdoors and Breaches” or a customized game that is personalized to certain departments or 

personal security situation can be fun and memorable ways to highlight certain personal security 

practices. These take a bit more involvement and devotion. Therefore, this should require a 

security SME (subject matter expert) facilitator to discuss security alongside employees. 

Interactive Training  

  Interactive training would be video-based and have users complete certain tasks. Security 

teams could design virtual machines to let users try out certain tools and workflows where it is 

necessary. These would be guided tutorials on certain skills, habits, or tools. 

Team/Department Produced Security Demos (Video or In-Person) 

  These could involve various teams in videos to “put a face to the team” and make it more 

personal. For instance, the network and security team could work together to show users how to 

set up home network monitoring, or they could show hacking POCs (proof of concepts) to users 

on why they should use better passwords and a password manager. This could also be done in-

person maybe in the lobby or as a sort of seminar where people outside of the organization are 

also invited. 
 Conclusion 

Overview 

  Personal security is not seen as an important practice to uphold at home, because people 

fail to see the value of it. It is reasonable to think that the costs of putting up personal security 

protections and consistently reducing one’s personal risk surface is higher than the benefits of 

doing so. Most people say, “no one wants my data” or “I’m not a target.” On the contrary, 

everyone is a target, and this is especially true when it comes to businesses and corporate assets. 

More importantly, businesses are the primary target. If personal security can cost-effectively add 

resilience to a business’s people, processes, and technology, then such personal security habits 

should be integrated into people’s lives. Additionally, there should be systems that make this 

integration easier and motivate individuals by making it personalized to their innate goals.  

Outcome 1 

  Thorough research was conducted to find evidence of connections between personal 

security habits and business cyber resilience in various areas of operations. A framework was 

developed by combining the 4Rs resilience framework and the PPT model of people, processes, 

and technology. Our research was applied to this constrained framework to curate innovative 

recommendations and personal-to-business connections based on the uncovered evidence. 

Outcome 2 

  A general program design and approach was hypothesized for implementing the 

developed personal-to-business framework in a corporate setting. The most promising part of 

such a program involves demos that are facilitated by an enthusiastic security team.  

Future Work 

  A more exhaustive framework less constrained to the 4Rs and PPT (people, process, 

technology) would be more effective at covering all areas of personal security. Constraints are 

beneficial because they force ideas to be a bit more innovative. However, numerous personal 

security habits should have been mentioned that benefit organizations more than some of the 

unorthodox recommendations given in this research. Covering areas of privacy and talking about 

business cybersecurity from the perspective of risk reduction could allow for more coverage of 

the cybersecurity and personal security domains. 

Developing a program framework to implement a wider variety of personal security 

habits should be a consequence of this research. Figuring out personal security recommendations 

and integrating them into societal habits are two very different problems. Research, statistical 

studies with surveys, and pragmatic approaches to large-scale implementation should be a focus 

of subsequent research. 
 References 

[1] Ponemon Institute LLC, “Cost of a Data Breach 2022,” ibm.com, 2022. 

https://www.ibm.com/sg-en/security/data-breach 

[2] Ponemon Institute LLC, “The Cybersecurity Illusion: The Emperor Has No Clothes,” 

Ponemon Institute LLC, 2019. [Online]. Available: https://go.attackiq.com/rs/041-FSQ-

281/images/REPORT-Ponemon1_vF2.pdf 

[3] C. Stamford, “Gartner Says Cybersecurity, Application & Integration Strategies and Cloud 

Are Top Technology Priorities for Midsize Enterprises,” Gartner, Inc., Sep. 26, 2022. 

https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2022-09-26-gartner-says-cybersecurity-

application-and-integration-strategies-and-cloud-are-top-technology-priorities-for-midsize-

enterprises  

[4] S. Kissoon, “Optimum Spending on Cybersecurity Measures: Part II,” Journal of Information 

Security, vol. 12, pp. 137–161, Jan. 2021, doi: 10.4236/jis.2021.121007.  

[5] Fitch Solutions, Inc., “US Cyber Insurance Sees Rapid Premium Growth, Declining Loss 

Ratios,” Fitchratings.com, 2022. https://www.fitchratings.com/research/insurance/us-cyber-

insurance-sees-rapid-premium-growth-declining-loss-ratios-13-04-2022  

[6] J. Akin, Ed., “Identity Theft Statistics: Fraud Is on the Rise - Experian,” www.experian.com, 

Oct. 11, 2022. https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/identity-theft-statistics/#:~:text=to 

[7] C. Stouffer, “Personal cybersecurity resolutions for 2022: A month-to-month guide,” 

us.norton.com, Jan. 23, 2022. https://us.norton.com/blog/privacy/personal-cybersecurity 

(accessed Nov. 15, 2022). 

[8] S. L, “Phishing attack statistics 2022,” CyberTalk, Mar. 30, 2022. 

https://www.cybertalk.org/2022/03/30/top-15-phishing-attack-statistics-and-they-might-scare-

you/  

[9] B. Debusmann, “Why remote working leaves us vulnerable to cyber-attacks,” BBC News, 

Jul. 25, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.bbc.com/news/business-57847652  

[10] National Institute of Standards and Technology, “robustness - Glossary | CSRC,” 

csrc.nist.gov. https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/  

[11] Slandau, “12 illuminating Zero Trust statistics and trends in 2022,” CyberTalk, Aug. 05, 

2022. https://www.cybertalk.org/2022/08/05/12-zero-trust-statistics-and-trends-in-2022/  

[12] D. Borkovich and R. Skovira, “Working From Home: Cybersecurity in the Age of 

Covid19,” Information Systems, vol. 21, pp. 234–236, Sep. 2020, doi: 

10.48009/4_iis_2020_234246.  

[13] N. Cicchitto, “Emailing Behaviors: Do Business and Personal Email Accounts Overlap?,” 

The Identity and Access Management Blog, Aug. 24, 2017. 

https://www.avatier.com/blog/personal-vs-work-email/ 

[14] Financesonline.com, “56 Email Statistics You Must Learn: 2022 Data on User Behaviour & 

Best Practices,” Financesonline.com, Jun. 09, 2021. https://financesonline.com/email-statistics/  

[15] S. Wang and H. Wang, “A Sociotechnical Systems Analysis of Knowledge Management for 

Cybersecurity,” International Journal of Sociotechnology and Knowledge Development (IJSKD), 

vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 77–94, 2021, doi: 10.4018/IJSKD.2021070105. 

[16] L. Dobrica, “KNOWLEDGE IN ACTION TOWARDS BETTER KNOWLEDGE 

MANAGEMENT IN ORGANIZATIONS,” Management Research and Practice, vol. 13, no. 2, 

pp. 26–35, 2021. 

[17] S. Zhao, Y. Jiang, P. Xiaobao, and J. Hong, “Knowledge sharing direction and innovation 

performance in organizations: Do absorptive capacity and individual creativity matter?,” 

European Journal of Innovation Management, vol. aheadofprint, Mar. 2020, doi: 

10.1108/EJIM0920190244. 

[18] E. Georgescu, “Software Patching Statistics for 2019: Common Practices and 

Vulnerabilities,” Heimdal Security Blog, Dec. 03, 2019. 

https://heimdalsecurity.com/blog/software-patching-statistics-practices-vulnerabilities/ 

[19] Ponemon Institute LLC, “COSTS AND CONSEQUENCES OF GAPS IN 

VULNERABILITY RESPONSE.” [Online]. Available: 

https://media.bitpipe.com/io_15x/io_152272/item_2184126/ponemon-state-of-vulnerability-

response-.pdf 

[20] K. Sheridan, “Missing Patches, Misconfiguration Top Technical Breach Causes,” Dark 

Reading, Mar. 25, 2020. https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities-threats/missing-patches-

misconfiguration-top-technical-breach-causes 

[21] M. Rudolph, D. Feth, and S. Polst, “Why Users Ignore Privacy Policies – A Survey and 

Intention Model for Explaining User Privacy Behavior,” in HumanComputer Interaction. 

Theories, Methods, and Human Issues, 2018, pp. 587–598. 

[22] U. Din, N. Islam, J. Rodrigues, and M. Guizani, “Privacy and Security Issues in Online 

Social Networks,” Future Internet, vol. 10, Nov. 2018, doi: 10.3390/fi10120114. 

[23] K. Wojda, “7 Surprising Internal Communications Statistics,” Spectrio, May 01, 2020. 

https://www.spectrio.com/internal-communications/7-surprising-internal-communications-stats/ 

(accessed Nov. 15, 2022). 

[24] NATIONAL INITIATIVE FOR CYBERSECURITY CAREERS AND STUDIES, 

“Knowledge Management | NICCS,” niccs.cisa.gov. https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-

development/nice-framework/specialty-areas/knowledge-management (accessed Nov. 15, 2022). 

[25] “NICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework | CISA,” www.cisa.gov. 

https://www.cisa.gov/nice-cybersecurity-workforce-framework 

[26] M. Jones, “The Inner-Platform Effect - The Daily Software Anti-Pattern,” Exception Not 

Found, Aug. 15, 2018. https://exceptionnotfound.net/the-inner-platform-effect-the-daily-

software-anti-pattern/ (accessed 2022). 

[27] J. Chan, “Why Not Sharing Institutional Knowledge is Costing Your Company Money,” 

360Learning. https://360learning.com/blog/institutional-knowledge/ 

[28] Yev, “How Often Do People Backup Their Computers?,” backblaze.com, Jun. 08, 2021. 

https://www.backblaze.com/blog/the-state-of-backups-whos-most-at-risk/ 

[29] Splunk Inc., “The State of Security 2022,” Splunk, 2022. 

https://www.splunk.com/en_us/campaigns/state-of-security.html (accessed Nov. 15, 2022). 

[30] “An Effective Problem Solving Process for IT Professionals,” Source One Technology, Jan. 

04, 2017. https://www.sourceonetechnology.com/problem-solving-process/ 

[31] “10 Facts and Stats About Learning Retention | Bridge,” www.getbridge.com, Jul. 12, 2022. 

 https://www.getbridge.com/blog/learning-analytics/10-stats-about-learning-retention-youll- 

want-forget/ (accessed Nov. 22, 2022). 

[32] R. P. Díaz Redondo, M. Caeiro Rodríguez, J. J. López Escobar, and A. Fernández Vilas, 

 “Integrating micro-learning content in traditional e-learning platforms,” Multimedia Tools and 

 Applications, vol. 80, no. 2, pp. 3121–3151, Sep. 2020, doi: 10.1007/s11042-020-09523-z. 

[33] “What Does It Mean to Harden a Device?,” CBT Nuggets. 

https://www.cbtnuggets.com/blog/technology/system-admin/what-does-it-mean-to-harden-a-

device 

[34] K. Tierney and M. Bruneau, “Conceptualizing and measuring resilience a key to disaster 

loss reduction,” May 2007. 

[35] R. Adner, P. Puranam, and F. Zhu, “What Is Different About Digital Strategy? From 

Quantitative to Qualitative Change,” Strategy Science, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 253–261, 2019, doi: 

10.1287/stsc.2019.0099. 

[36] Second Wind Consultants, “Teach Your Employees To Respect The Chain-of-Command - 

Second Wind Consultants,” Second Wind Consultants, 2019. 

https://secondwindconsultants.com/resources/teach-your-employees-to-respect-the-chain-of-

command/ 

[37] Media Sonar, “Is OSINT Legal?,” Media Sonar Technologies, 2020. 

https://mediasonar.com/2020/04/30/legal-ethical-osint/ 

[38] A. Mendlein, T. Nguyen, and A. Rege, “Cybersecurity Awareness and Training through a 

Multidisciplinary OSINT Course Project.” doi: 10.18260/1234367. 

[39] S. Das, L. A. Dabbish, and J. I. Hong, “A typology of perceived triggers for End-User 

security and privacy behaviors,” Aug. 2019, pp. 97–115. [Online]. Available: 

https://www.usenix.org/conference/soups2019/presentation/das 

[40] M. Newall and J. Sawyer, “A majority of Americans are concerned about the safety and 

privacy of their personal data,” IPSOS.com, May 05, 2022. https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-

polls/majority-americans-are-concerned-about-safety-and-privacy-their-personal-data 

[41] A. Weinert, “Your Pa$$word doesn’t matter,” microsoft.com, Jul. 09, 2019. 

https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-entra-azure-ad-blog/your-pa-word-doesn-t-

matter/ba-p/731984 

[42] K. Thomas and A. Moscicki, “New research: How effective is basic account hygiene at 

preventing hijacking,” Google Online Security Blog, May 17, 2019. 

https://security.googleblog.com/2019/05/new-research-how-effective-is-basic.html  

[43] IBM X-Force IR Team, “X-Force Threat Intelligence Index 2022,” ibm.com, 2022. 

https://www.ibm.com/downloads/cas/ADLMYLAZ (accessed Nov. 22, 2022). [44] Verizon 

Report 

[44] G. Bassett, C. D. Hylender, P. Langlois, A. Pinto, and S. Widup, “DBIR Data Breach 

Investigations Report,” verizon.com, 2022. 

https://www.verizon.com/business/resources/reports/dbir/ (accessed Nov. 22, 2022). 

[45] G. Turner, “Password Manager and Vault 2021 Annual Report: Usage, Awareness, and 

Market Size,” Security.org, Dec. 06, 2021. https://www.security.org/digital-safety/password-

manager-annual-report/ 

[46] Ponemon Institute LLC, “The 2020 State of Password and Authentication Security 

Behaviors Report,” Ponemon Institute LLC, 2020. Accessed: Nov. 22, 2022. [Online]. Available: 

https://www.nass.org/sites/default/files/2020-

04/Yubico%20Report%20Ponemon%202020%20State%20of%20Password%20and%20Authenti

cation%20Security%20Behaviors.pdf 

[47] Clikcloud. (n.d.). Role of your employees in Cybersecurity. For2Fi. Retrieved November 22, 
2022, from https://www.for2fi.com/role-of-your-employees-in-cybersecurity/ 

[48] M. Bishop, M. Carvalho, R. Ford, and L. Mayron, “Resilience is More than Availability,” in 

New Security Paradigms Workshop, 2011, p. 98. 

[49] “The Qualitative and Quantitative Metrics You Should Measure for Your Inbound 

Marketing Strategy,” BenchmarkONE, Mar. 10, 2021. 

https://www.benchmarkone.com/blog/qualitative-quantitative-metrics-inbound-marketing-

strategy/ 

[50] “66% of Americans Don’t Feel Fully Prepared for Natural Disasters, and 45% Don’t Know 

if Their Insurance Covers Related Claims,” ValuePenguin. 

https://www.valuepenguin.com/natural-disaster-preparedness-survey 

[51] “The human error factor in disaster recovery. - Kinetek,” www.kinetek.co.uk. 

https://www.kinetek.co.uk/insights/the-human-error-factor-in-disaster-recovery_37.html 

(accessed Nov. 29, 2022). 

[52] “Security Education Training and Awareness (SETA) – IT Living Lab.” 

https://livlab.org/seta/ 

[53] T. Rock, “23 Disaster Recovery Statistics You Should Know,” Invenio IT, 2015. 

https://invenioit.com/continuity/disaster-recovery-statistics/ 

[54] S. Bucholtz, “Measuring Disaster Preparedness with 2017 AHS Data | HUD USER,” 

www.huduser.gov, Mar. 23, 2020. https://www.huduser.gov/portal/pdredge/pdr-edge-frm-asst-

sec-032320.html (accessed Dec. 06, 2022). 

[55] A. Hurst, “Cybersecurity jargon between C-suite and specialists a key barrier,” Information 

Age, Nov. 22, 2022. https://www.information-age.com/cybersecurity-jargon-impacting-

communication-between-c-suite-specialists-123500747/ (accessed Dec. 06, 2022). 

[56] P. Weidenbach and J. Vom Dorp, “Home Router Security Report 2020,” FRAUNHOFER-

INSTITUT FÜR KOMMUNIKATION, INFORMATIONSVERARBEITUNG UND 

ERGONOMIE, FKIE, 2020. [Online]. Available: 

https://www.fkie.fraunhofer.de/content/dam/fkie/de/documents/HomeRouter/HomeRouterSecuri

ty_2020_Bericht.pdf 

[57] Palo Alto Networks | Unit 42, “2020 Unit 42 IoT Threat Report,” paloaltonetworks.com, 

2020. https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/iot-threat-report-2020/ 

[58] BHIS and J. Strand, “Webcast: No SPAN Port? No Tap? No Problem!,” Black Hills 

Information Security, Jul. 23, 2021. https://www.blackhillsinfosec.com/webcast-no-span-port-

no-tap-no-problem/ (accessed Dec. 06, 2022). 

[59] “Natural Disasters Bring Increased Fraud – How to Beware of Scammers.” Natural 

Disasters Bring Increased Fraud – How to Beware of Scammers | PNC Insights, 21 Jan. 2022, 

www.pnc.com/insights/personal-finance/protect/natural-disasters-bring-increased-fraud.html. 

[60] S. Sjouwerman, “Stanford Research: 88% Of Data Breaches Are Caused By Human Error,” 

blog.knowbe4.com. https://blog.knowbe4.com/88-percent-of-data-breaches-are-caused-by-

human-error#:~:text=Researchers%20from%20Stanford%20University%20and 

 
 

 

 